- I've been an openly transgender blogger
for most of my life and through those 16 years,
I've had various degrees of confidence around my gender.
Obviously, as a teenager,
when I started my YouTube channel, I was very insecure.
Resources for trans people were very thin
and I felt very alone and that's the exact reason why
I started a YouTube channel.
Because I wanted the ability to reach out
and speak to other people who were like me.
And during that time, it did feel very validating
for people to use the right pronouns
and to refer to me as a name that I chose,
that now feels so much more familiar to me
than the one that was given to me at birth.
But all that being said,
long before I announced my gender to the world,
long before me even being sure about my gender,
a lot of people read me as a young cis girl.
That it was very common for people
to refer to me as she or her without me asking
and I remember being really defensive about this
when I was a child.
But of course, as I got older and understood my gender more,
it actually became a very positive thing.
So eventually when I started to medically transition,
it really wasn't that long
before I was starting to pass, as we say.
Where people were simply looking at me
and assuming that I was a cis woman.
And frankly, this wasn't because of hormones
or anything like that.
It was more so that
I started becoming more confident in myself
as I started to feel less shame about being transgender.
These days, I'm very far removed from that little teenager
who needed so much validation.
I remember I used to be a huge shut-in
and I used my transness as an excuse
for why I shouldn't be able to participate in public life.
But these days, I'm a relatively extroverted,
relatively well adjusted person who goes out into the world
and is taken as their gender without much question.
I say all that to say
that I am an incredibly privileged trans person.
In fact, the only times
when I ever really experienced transphobia
is when I'm on YouTube.
YouTube is the only force of antagonism
when it comes to my transness that I have in my life.
And I think that a lot of people don't understand that
when I have conversations on here about being transgender,
I'm having them
because I don't often have these conversations
in my daily life.
I think that I'm able to speak so intimately
and so bluntly about being transgender
and about experiencing transphobia,
because it's not something that's constantly
at my throat in my daily life.
I think so frequently,
cis people are used to interacting with transgender people
who have only been in their first few years
of their transness,
where they are really desperate for validation
and it is so important to them
that cis people agree about their gender.
But for me, I lived a life
where I've not really required that
in order for me to function the way that I currently do.
And so I always find the disconnect between
how people imagine trans people to be
versus how I tend to live my life to be pretty severe
when compared to my personal experiences.
Recently, I stated in one of my videos
that I don't identify as a woman, I simply am one.
And somebody left a comment
that was something along the lines of,
Kat, I really respect you
and appreciate your work and your videos,
but I disagree with your statement that you're a woman.
This person said that they respected me,
but they disagreed with my gender.
And I actually think it's pretty impossible
to respect a trans person, but not their gender.
Again, comments like these make me laugh
because they stand in stark contrast to my daily life
where I'm not used to being differentiated from a cis woman.
I think the one thing that people don't understand about me
is that in my daily life,
I don't feel this need to announce my gender.
I think you could probably get that impression
from my YouTube channel because I talked so frequently
about being transgender on here.
But I'm not somebody who announces that I'm a woman
and yells at people to call me by she and her pronouns,
people simply see me and take me as that and move on.
For example, when I was writing the script for this video,
I was working at a cafe
and I walked up and asked the lady behind the front desk
where the bathroom is,
and she directed me to the women's restroom
without even a second thought.
And that has been the answer to that question
for most of my life.
Now, I of course understand that when people say
they disagree with me describing myself as a woman,
what they're really saying is that
woman is a term that they use to describe people
who are designated female at birth.
And because I am not that,
that is not the technical correct term to refer to me with.
But what I think people aren't ready
to have a conversation about is the fact that
while there are these people who think that
gender is solely defined by their biology,
that we don't tend to use biology
as a way of gendering people socially.
For better and for worse, gender doesn't work in a way
where we're all walking around
with our biological identifiers on our foreheads
before people decide to put us
in the inevitable binary of man or woman.
What I've known for most of my life is that
I've been more comfortably categorized in
the woman's part of that binary.
And as a trans woman who takes hormones every single day
to address the disconnect between my gender and my sex,
I am very aware that I do not have
the same exact biology as a cis woman.
That being said, none of that has mattered
in the way that people tend to gender and categorize me.
When people tell me they disagree with my gender,
all I can do is think about the way that I live my life now,
how comfortable it is, how functional it is,
how uncontroversial it is and wonder what sort of life
they'd like for me to live instead.
When you start to dig beneath this,
you start to see the baseline resentment for a person
on the basis of their transness.
A lot of times these conversations start to revolve around
this idea that somebody is forced to entertain
a transgender person's, as they often say, delusions.
This is something that comes up a lot
when we talk about people in co-working situations
where a coworker transitions
and they've been calling them by this pronoun and that name.
And suddenly they need to call them by another name
and they feel like they're pressured to entertain this
when they disagree.
While I appreciate that
some people don't like to be called transphobic,
I think that it's worth unpacking
what exactly is behind their disagreement.
Because I think that when you unpack that disagreement,
you'll discover that it's less of a disagreement
and more of a dislike.
That is indeed the subtext that I detect
when somebody says that they disagree with my gender.
When they look at the happiness I have in my life
and they say, no, I disagree.
And if not dislike it's at the bare minimum
discomfort or confusion.
I think that a lot of these conversations are had
because people are frankly confused by trans people.
More of them I have these,
I think a lot of people are simply uncomfortable
around transgender people.
Oftentimes in these conversations,
people will express frustration and stress
around even having to associate with a transgender person.
I know that people don't want to call that transphobia,
but what else is it if not that?
In most situations,
I think we would very easily see the bias in somebody
who is simply uncomfortable with somebody
because of who they are.
I do think that there's a bit of an unrealistic push
that some people have
where they expect you to get it right then and there
and they're willing to yell at you for not getting it.
I know for a lot of cis people, these are new conversations.
There's a lot of confusion,
this is a lot to wrap your mind around.
And so I do have a lot of patience for cis people
who are still trying to learn,
who are still trying to figure it out.
But I think I can afford to have that patience
because as I've stated,
I'm not used to having my gender invalidated
every single day of my life.
On one hand, while I think that
we should still hold a lot of space for the fact that
a lot of cis people are still growing
in their understandings of trans people,
I also think that it's very, very oppressive
to ask transgender people to put a pause on their happiness
and their pursuit of their true
so that society can catch up.
Most transgender people cannot afford to live
within the shallow confines
of a cis person's conception of them.
And so we opt to transition to push forward,
to live in our happiness
whether people understand it or agree with it or not
because at the end of the day, time is finite.
And that's the clash I think we're having
since people frequently speak of my gender
as though it's a two way conversation,
as though my life as a transgender woman
is something that requires them to agree or disagree.
Trans people have existed and will continue to exist
whether you agree with them or not.
Now that said,
I think that we're still having some conversations
about transgender people
and how exactly they factor into society.
For example, maybe you disagree with
trans women competing with cis women in sports.
Personally, I don't have much of an opinion about that
but I will say that
I think it's a valid conversation to be had.
But it's not a conversation that will end
with a transgender woman's gender being invalidated.
I think that one of the biggest reasons
that people resent trans folks is that
inherent in the idea of being transgender
is the fact that we heard what our doctors
and our parents told us we were supposed to be,
we simply said no and made our own path.
I partially think that a lot of transphobia
can be traced back to the fact that
trans people embody this inherent challenge
to what most cis people understand about themselves.
If they accepted transgender people,
they might have to question the ways
in which they've limited themselves
or have been socialized to limit themselves
because of their biology.
And it's really sad to me to think
that there are some people out there
who want to limit transgender people
in the way that they felt limited.