 While I've always been a bit more goth than punk,
I've often said that I have quite punk sensibilities.
Central to that being that I'm very DIY,
and let's just say, I'm not a massive fan
of the establishment.
As a genre, punk started in the late '70s
and was a response to the more antiquated manufactured music
that was popular at the time, namely disco.
Punk was edgy and counter culture, and it really wasn't even
about being the best musician in the world,
it was about being disruptive and sometimes that's enough.
The Misfits are one of American punk's most iconic bands
of all time.
And recently drunk Elvis, (coughs) I mean, Glenn Danzig
had some interesting things to say about punk in 2021.
And an interview with Rolling Stone,
Danzig was asked about the band song, "Last Caress,"
which is honestly one of my favorite Misfits songs.
But you know, it does include lyrics about killing babies
and sexually assaulting mothers, so there's that I guess.
In his interview, he said that that song wouldn't fly
these days because of so-called woke bullshit
and cancel culture, saying.
- You could never have it.
It would never have happened.
We're lucky it happened when it did,
because it'll never happen again.
You won't have any of those kinds of bands ever again.
Everyone's so uptight and PC,
it's just like, okay, whatever.
- And by it, he means punk.
To be frank, I found this comment to be quite interesting
because while I think that we are really far divorced
from the political climate of the 1970s that gave birth
to the punk movement, I don't know if we've ever lived
in a time where we've been more encouraged
to create art that stands up against the establishment,
which is kind of what punk is all about.
So what are we really talking about here?
So I felt that I would take this opportunity
to have a conversation with you guys about cancel culture
because I know a lot of you guys have been asking me
how I feel about it.
So let's use this as a jumping-off point, I guess.
Firstly, there are some people who say
that cancel culture doesn't exist
because people are never really canceled.
When I think about this, I think about Jeffree Star,
who I've made several videos about.
He said some really viciously racist stuff in his past,
that stuff got resurfaced and it was fodder
for social media conversation for months
and months and months on end.
But he still has 17 million subscribers,
and there's not a video on his channel
that doesn't get at least a million views.
On top of all of that, he's still putting out new makeup.
So this idea that a couple of bloggers talking about him
got him canceled, to me at least, is a bit silly.
And on the other side, we have people who say
that cancel culture is very, very real.
For example, the situation where Gina Carano
posted a couple of really questionable things
on her Twitter, like comparing being a conservative
to being Jewish in Nazi Germany.
That's gonna be a yikes for me, bro.
And these posts and many other things that she posted
on Twitter got her fired from her job on "The Mandalorian,"
where she played a character called Cara Dune.
But she got a job working for Ben Shapiro.
So, you know, like onto bigger and better things, I guess.
But Jeffree Star and Gina Carano are F-list celebrities.
What about Z-list celebrities like Central Park Karen?
A white woman who went viral when she called the cops
on a black man who asked her to put a leash on her dog.
And on her phone call to the cops, she lied and said
that the black man was physically attacking her.
And of course this was all caught on camera
and it went viral and it ultimately led
to her losing her job.
Hashtag canceled, I guess.
It truly could not have happened to a nicer woman.
Now you guys know that I try my best not to see things
in black or white.
Instead I tend to see things
in undulating shades of gray, right?
But when I look at the situations that I just listed,
it's hard for me not to see that what a lot of people define
as cancel culture is public criticism
that leads to somebody's livelihood being lost.
And when I recontextualize that with what Danzig
is saying here, the math isn't really mathematizing.
And in this interview with Rolling Stone,
Danzig basically admits that "Last Caress"
is basically just an edgelord song.
He say.
- [Glenn] It's just a crazy song.
We would do things just to people off.
- And to me, when I hear rants like this,
it honestly just sounds like people complaining
about the fact that they can't say offensive things
and also be mainstream enough to be paid for it,
which is kind of an interesting position
for a punk musician to take.
But you know what, Glenn Danzig grew up to be a rich guy.
So I think maybe he lost some perspective here,
and I'm here to give him a little bit of that.
Believe it or not, back in 1980, when the Beware EP
was put out, "Last Caress" was not pop music.
It was not mainstream.
It was not played on the radio so that it could be dissected
and critiqued by the mainstream.
That was kind of the point.
If you wanted to get a copy of the Beware EP
or you wanted to find that single,
you had to go to like a shitty record store
in the bad part of town to find a copy of the actual song.
It was not something that was made to be digested
by the mainstream.
It was not dissected and critiqued by the mainstream,
which apparently is how we're defining cancel culture.
On the flip side, Queen's "Another one Bites the Dust,"
which was the top song of the year, was heavily criticized
by the media for having hidden satanic messages
that apparently encouraged kids to smoke weed.
And I may have to listen to that
after I finished filming this video.
My point that, usually, when people are canceled,
it's because they're famous or they went viral
for X reason or another.
And what it sounds like people are lamenting
is the fact that they can't be popular
or known without being criticized.
What I think people are lamenting more than anything
is the fact that the internet
makes these criticisms more visible.
And frankly, I can't even fathom a punk musician
giving a fuck.
Because if it was about the music,
you would just make the music instead of complaining
that it's too offensive for people to hear it, right?
But I don't think it's about the music
for a lot of people who make this complaint.
It's about the fame.
And I honestly think that that's kind of an odd goal
for a punk band to have.
Secondly, and this is really aggravating,
woke does not mean what so many people
seem to think it means.
Woke is an incredibly overused term, yes, but it started
as a term that would describe Black folks speaking
to other Black folks about the realities of systemic racism.
It was about educating other Black people
about what it's like to be Black in America.
For example, it's being aware of the fact
that white women, like the central park Karen,
exist and will weaponize their white womanhood
in order to encourage the cops to use lethal force
against a Black man, because they can.
Look, I respect that the word has been overused
and that because of that it's lost a lot of their meaning.
But I've really never met somebody
who disliked the word woke, who either didn't understand it
or just kind of thought that like this whole racism thing
wasn't a big deal.
Look, let me level with you guys. (laughs)
I find white men talking about cancel culture
to be highly entertaining because of how detached
from reality it often is.
I've talked quite frequently on this channel
about the times in my life where I have adjusted myself
so that I could be treated with more respect, right?
And so frequently part of doing that is swallowing racism,
and sexism, and transphobia, and misogyny
and all these other just shitty isms so that I can
just like not be hurt, you know?
And I've done this so much in my life.
So much to the point where it's like, I switch on,
you know, a sort of persona in certain spaces,
just so that I get respected, right?
And with that being my reality,
it's really funny listening to white men complain
about the fact that they can't sing about killing babies
without the PC police getting called.
Now this is going to sound terrible,
but in the pre pandemic times, I loved going to live comedy.
Not because I like laughing at funny jokes,
but because I really enjoy watching people bomb.
I know that probably makes me sound like a bad person,
but I'm a public speaker and there's just something
so cathartic and identifiable about being in a comedy set
and listening to somebody work through their stuff
and not do well.
It just makes me feel like I'm not alone.
Sometimes my jokes don't land,
so I totally get what that is like.
Oftentimes I'd go to these open mics,
and one of my favorite archetypes
that I saw repeated over and over and over again
was the white dude who was convinced
that he was just so edgy and that nobody could handle it,
these days.
Their sets often bomb because it's usually just them saying
some offensive shit with no punchline
and then blaming the audience for not getting it.
And the thing is, these guys are never funny,
but they will continue to talk about how they have all
of these offensive jokes that they're afraid to share
because people just can't handle it these days.
Instead of acknowledging that they just weren't funny,
they've got this built-in excuse.
It's not that they weren't funny, it's that everyone else
is just too politically correct to get it.
I wish that white men would just tell the racist joke.
I'm begging you, tell the racist joke.
It's apparently your best material.
Just tell the racist joke instead of talking about
how you can't tell it.
Just tell us this amazing racist joke
that you're so afraid would get you canceled.
Say it.
I'll wait.
Timothy, tell us.
(laughs) As an observer, I want to say that this rally call
that everything is too PC these days,
frankly sounds like an excuse for the fact that
maybe you're just not good at what you do.
Like I said, I'm more goth than I am punk.
And the closest I kind of gets a punk is post punk.
But you know, to be honest with you guys,
a lot of these like '80s punk bands
wouldn't make it in 2021.
Not because they're edgy, not because they're offensive,
but because they fucking suck.
And usually they're really, really shitty musicians.
And when I say that, I of course am excluding
whatever your favorite punk band may happen to be.
I do not envy musicians in 2021
because we are so oversaturated with new music all the time,
and our standards are super, super, super high.
And I think if we're being really honest,
these '80s bands would not have been able
to make the cut in 2021.
Punk was already kind of dead, but there are still plenty
of musicians keeping the punk spirit alive.
Even ones who use offensive and edgy language,
but usually those artists are not mainstream.
Hell, even if we do talk about mainstream music,
"WAP," a song where a woman asks a man
to hit the dangly thing in the back of her throat,
um, is a very, very, very popular song.
At the end of the day, I keep asking myself
who these comments are for.
Who is Glenn Danzig trying to speak to
when he says stuff like this?
And I think he's trying to talk to other people
who also believe that PC culture, woke bullshit,
cancel culture, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
has gone too far.
In a strange, almost meta way, there are a lot of people
who would like to believe that their ideas are too edgy
to be digested by the mainstream.
And hey, for some people, that's the appeal of punk music.
But at the end of the day, you're dying on a hill
for lyrics like, I killed a baby today, which, in 2021,
if I'm being completely honest,
while that's a grotesque line, it's really not that edgy,
because it's such an obviously offensive thing to say.
You know what it reminds me of?
Shock art that I would see in school,
where a person would smear their all over the walls,
and the real art was convincing other people
that this is art, this should be tolerated and celebrated.
But people are allowed to not like your art.
They're allowed to be offended by your art.
They're allowed to not want anything to do with your art.
They're allowed to think that you fucking suck.
And I'm saying that as somebody
who has been hashtag canceled several times over.
I will say that there is something to be said
about the mob mentality of the internet
that doesn't leave a lot of room for nuance
and really, really loves watching people burn.
Personally, I've never really believed
in throwing out the baby with the bath water.
I still own and listen to Smiths albums,
even though Morrissey is a piece of shit.
But come on, we live in a time
where everyone has a supercomputer in their pocket
and they have never been more encouraged
to create art that is meaningful, disruptive
and stands up against the system.
Which again is the foundation of a punk sensibility.
So are you really lamenting punk,
or your bank account?