So, the Internet has lost its mind.
I include myself in that description
I cannot open my YouTube homepage without a flood of angry Game of Thrones
hot takes, and here I am a month late to the conversation just adding to that
deluge and I'm sorry but you know sometimes you've got some feelings and
you just... you just gotta monetize them.
How did this cultural landmark one of
the most popular television shows in history critical darling and commercial
success a show that unequivocally changed the way television was made
End in such a trash fire? it's not like there was a change in the creative heads
the show runners were always the same cast was almost uniformly the same so
like, what the hell?
So, this is yet another autopsy on what I think the hell
happened and for the most part I'm going to keep this to a discussion of the TV
show we could get into discussions of author intentionality and adaptation but
I'm gonna stop you right there because I don't care this is an adaptation
therefore every creative decision should stand on its own regardless of whether
it was in the books or not or how you think George RR Martin is going to go
with it whatever. Because the books aren't done yet. The show is.
what your whingeing about. I'm not whingeing. Your lips are moving and you're complaining about
something that's whingeing.
The most common talking point in the wake of the finale
of Game of Thrones is that the writing was bad so with the popular thing always
comes controversy and Game of Thrones was no exception from day one we had hot
takes about its portrayal of gender about its portrayal of race sexual
violence exploitation you name it your mileage may vary on how much you're
willing to put up with I was willing to roll with the problematic elements you
know not ignore them but accept them. But the critique of sexism
and racism in media is not not relevant to the discussion of bad writing.
When you default to stereotyping you're being lazy and thoughtless which generally makes
for bad or at least uninteresting writing dwarfs have mad hops for more on
that see the Bright episode. "Fairy lives don't matter today." But at the same time
no piece of media is ever going to be ideologically pure and it's unrealistic
to expect that. "Shame. Shame"
Critics and fans alike have been discussing the problematic
elements of Game of Thrones since the day it debuted for some they were too
much, and these people stopped watching. I know
a lot of these people for others people like me they digested it. Yep. Sansa's
getting raped and Theon has to watch
but we accepted it and continued to watch because hey surely this is leading
up to something riveting or at least poignant
it's not like critique of Game of Thrones is anything new but it's it's
different now before it was about like how the thing is problematic.
"We're not attacking Kings Landing so that you can rape the Queen." "I'm not going to rape her I'm
going to fuck her." Or when is it okay to have a rape scene. Now the discussion is
more about like structure and planting and payoff and character development and
screenwriting and audience expectations and subverting expectations.
"Sir Bronn of the Blackwater, Lord of Highgarden, Lord paramount of the region, master of coin."
but there's more to it than that in fan culture in general especially for a
long-running beloved series like Game of Thrones we may eventually run into the
which might make you defend a thing way longer than you should have after all
you've watched and re-watched all of the seasons multiple times you have a
dedicated Twitter account just for live tweeting Game of Thrones yeah okay
everyone can fast travel all of a sudden when distance was a huge tactical
consideration in early seasons but whatever it's fine I'm fine I'm sure
this is because the story needs to head somewhere important season seven wasn't
bad they were just building up to something
cool give them a chance.
What I hear really often probably even more often
than I don't watch the show is I stopped watching the show usually around season
five when it really started to go off the rails but either way don't worry
we're going to do a quick recap for the benefit of the people who stopped
watching the show who never watched the show and probably the people who
everyone needs a quick recap anyway and by quick I mean about half the runtime
of this video and I'm also about to steal a lot of jokes from Gay of Thrones
so sorry Jonathan Van Ness you're just too difficult not to steal from strap in
season 1 basically a murder mystery surrounding the line of succession for
the Iron Throne after the last hand of the King dies. Hand of the king is
basically like the Grand Vizier let's say. "She says Jon Arryn was murdered."
episode 1 ends with a child witnessing some incest and Prince Charming from
Shrek 2 aka brother D pushing the child out of a window presumably to kill
him but he fails the King asked Sean Bean to be the new hand of the king
after the old one dies mysteriously so he goes to King's Landing with his two
daughters he engages daughter Sansa to the evil Prince she's thrilled
but eventually Sean Bean discovers that the prince is the incest bastard of Lena
Headey and brother D. "Robert Baratheon, black of hair
Joffrey Baratheon, golden head." And not the legitimate son
of the King, Bobby B.
"You heard the hand, the king's too fat for his armor. Go
find the breastplate stretcher."
But Bobby B dies, Sean Bean gets beheaded, and a
big ol' war begins. Sean Bean's people fighting for independence, and everyone
else fighting for the throne and also Lord Life Alert over here is like hey
I'm in the war too but nobody cares daughter Sansa becomes a captive other
daughter Arya escaped and is angry meanwhile across the sea the deposed
king's daughter Daenerys gets married off to this guy and raped but then her
husband learns to respect her, and it's fine.
But oh no, he's dead and but then she gets some dragons and up north Jon Snow discovers
some ice zombies. Season two big ol' war for succession
Bobby B has two brothers, plus inbread bastard King plus Sean Bean's son
and also Lord of the no one cares islands is like hey I'm in the war too
but nobody cares ending in a big battle led by Peter Dinklage. Evil inbred
bastard Kings side wins but Charles Dance is the real power behind the throne
and also the best character in television history, do not @ me, he just
is. Meanwhile Sean Bean's people are winning the war for independence and
Sean Bean jr. is supposed to marry Lord Life Alert's daughter, but then he marries
Oona Chaplin instead. Fun fact that's Charlie Chaplin's granddaughter.
Up north more zombies.
Season 3 no one is grateful to Peter Dinklage for
his role in the big battle ah well he gets to be secretary of the Treasury
anyway Arya is still angry. Sansa is no longer evil inbred bastard King's fiancee,
Natalie Dormer is Arya is kidnapped by this guy he's called the Hound
don't worry he's great brother D had a genuinely wonderful redemption arc with
Captain Phasma
seriously it's some of the best television in all of the
television Sean Bean Junior's campaign is no longer going so well
They plan to wed a different Lord to Lord Life Alert's daughter that Sean Bean Jr. was
supposed to marry but instead the wedding ends in a massacre and the whole
family is slaughtered this is the infamous red wedding the war for
northern independence is over
Across the sea, Daenerys has been using those
dragons to "liberate" a bunch of slaves. Season ends with
her big white Savior moment.
Season Four Evil inbred bastard King is poisoned
at his own wedding Peter Dinklage is framed for it
Sansa escapes to the north with the help of totally trustworthy--You know what? I'm just
going to steal another thing from Gay of Thrones--vintage Alan Cumming. Doe-eyed
inbred bastard King is now king Natalie Dormer is engaged to him after a rigged
trial Tyrion demands a trial by combat which goes well for him until it doesn't
His Brother D sneaks him out of the city, but not before he murders Charles
Dance and also his girlfriend, but don't worry, he's still totally sympathetic.
Arya's travel companion, The Hound loses in battle to Captain Phasma. She escapes
him and decides to leave the country to go to assassin school up north there's a
battle between these people, who are trying to escape the ice zombies and
the border patrol Jon Snow is a part of his love interest dies Daenerys conquers
another slave city and decides to rule it instead of coming to Westeros child
who was pushed out of the window in season one he's like learning omniscient
mind powers from Max von Sydow
Season 5 Tyrion, with the help of lord
Dr. Evil is running around Essos, trying to find Daenerys. Cersei tries to exploit
rising religious extremism in the capital which oops really backfires on
her once they find out about all those inbred bastard kings there's a really
dumb subplot involving this guy's people that gets dropped the following season
It's awful.
"You want a good girl, but you need a bad pussy."
Bobby B's brother, the guy
with the strongest claim to the throne burns his daughter to death because he
thinks that will give him some fire magic to win a battle it doesn't
"Congratulations, you played yourself."
Arya goes to ninja school, decides it
isn't for her and leaves Daenerys is bad at ruling a city whose culture she does
not understand her dragons are unruly she's bad at everything eventually
there's a pro-slave rebellion. She almost gets killed, but don't worry, her main
dragon saves her his name is drogon Jon Snow tries to help the free folk they
were battling in the previous season because it turns out those ice zombies
are raising an army of regular zombies and the more dead bodies they have the
bigger their army gets.
His border patrol brothers stab him to death because
they don't like that he's helping the foreigners he's dead
Sansa-- "You've known Sansa since she was a girl.
Now watch her become a woman."
So here is where we pretty much completely run out
of books to adapt.
Season Six Jon Snow gets resurrected by the woman
who talked Bobby B's brother into burning his daughter alive. Daenerys is
captured by the people she married into in season one and is forced into
captivity with the other Khal widows but manages to wow them all by murdering all
of their kings with fire, but you know, she herself is immune to being set on fire
which means she's the Khal now, because that's how their society works. So she
reunites with her dragons and manages to do one-two punch of liberating Meereen
from the pro slave rebellion Lord of the no one cares island gets thrown off a
bridge by Hot Topic Pirate aka the worst character in the show.
"And I'm going to galavant
right over and give it to Daenerys Targaryen along with my big cock."
Or possibly any show. Arya murders the entire house of Lord Life Alert and then
feeds them to him and then kills Lord Life Alert. Tyrion becomes hand of the
queen for some goddamn reason I don't know probably because he's played by
Peter Dinklage then it's off to Westeros for Dany and her entourage with the help
of Lord No One Cares Island's daughter and the iron fleet, which I haven't
mentioned yet but they're about to get real frustrating
Sansa escapes and reunites with Jon Snow. They reclaim Winterfell for the Starks
and feed... "My hounds will never harm me."
"You haven't fed them in seven days. You said it yourself."
to his dogs. It is an empowering
feminist moment oh and Cersei blows up the Vatican wipes out their religious
extremists and her adversaries in the aristocracy and parks herself at the
balcony drinking wine where she will stay for the next two seasons but not
before her last child kills himself.
Season Seven Okay, it's about to get
really dumb. "It's a pretty song. I've never heard it before." "It's a new one." Wee!
Daenerys and Jon Snow have a meet-cute.
"I mean no offense, your grace, but I don't know you."
"In the time since he's met me, he's refused to call me queen, he's
refused to bow, and now he's calling me a child."
"I believe he's calling all of us children."
"Figure of speech."
They spend most of the season faffing
around whether Jon Snow will bend the knee-- "Bend the knee." "Bend the knee."
"Bend the knee." --on behalf of the North after he helps Dany take the throne,
debate about whether or not to fight the White Walkers or go after Cersei first
Daenerys battles the Lannisters a bit, Jon Snow and Daenerys **** and then, okay, this
is where it gets really dumb. All right, so everyone is like, hey the big
existential threat is the ice zombies how do we convince Cersei to like stop
fighting us so we can deal with the existential zombie threat I know let's
send the Magnificent Seven north of the wall to get like a sample zombie so they
do that and it is the dumbest thing but you like me are willing to give these
showrunners the benefit of the doubt like oh boy you know they're just doing
this dumb thing to get to the good stuff. So they get stuck, and Bobby B's
bastard son has to go do it chariots of fire and send a note to Daenerys to
please come save us which she does risking her life to do so but loses a
goddamn dragon in the process but whatever she saves their asses and it is
here only after she risked her life and lost a goddamn dragon that John is like
okay I will bend the knee and Daenerys is like okay well I already ate some
humble pie to save you so I hope I am worthy of this because I know this is a
big deal not only for you but you know for Humanity to you know survive so then
they fast travel to King's Landing and show Cersei the zombie and they're like
trust us. I know this is just one, but there's a lot of these. And Cersei's like
oh okay truce and also I will send soldiers to help you fight the ice
zombies. But guess what, she's lying! "You pledged our forces to fight our
common enemy." "I'll say whatever I need to say to ensure the survival of our house."
And it is only then that brother D's like, you know, I think I've had enough of your
conniving and evil and blowing up St. Peter's Basilica. So this whole stupid
subplot was not only a total waste of time but they lost their resurrection
expert and gave the Night King a goddamn dragon in the process. Go team.
Season 8
episode 1 everyone arrives at Winterfell Cersei fucks hot-topic pirate the North
is racist I guess episode 2 zombies are coming oh no a lot of dialogue basically
reads like a big send-off to all our favorite characters
this will go down in history as the last decent episode of Game of Thrones and
also a massive waste of time that gets totally shat upon later.
Oh, it also turns out that Jon Snow is not a bastard but is in fact the rightful heir to the throne.
"My real name is Aegon Targaryen."
And also Daenerys's nephew. Weeeeeeeeeeeeee.
Episode 3 The big battle. The biggest battle, which
almost all of the major characters survive and it is resolved when
Arya stabs the main ice zombie, the Night King with a special blade, and then they do the fantasy trope
thing of you know oh you killed the main one the Eye of Sauron is exploded so all
of the the orcs are dead now. So yeah, so that that's the end of that, I guess.
No more ice zombies. Really. And we still have three episodes to go. And they're all 90 minutes
each oh good episode 4 I want to die time to head
south and conquer Cersei only on the way hot topic pirate shoots one of those
indestructible dragons out of the sky with TWO million-to-one
shots from a mile away which the dragons did not see also
somehow they captured Daenerys's gal-pal but no one else, and guess what
happens to her yep yep also everyone kind of wants to do some treason on
Daenerys for some reason even though she has by this point done nothing wrong.
"Have you considered the best ruler might be someone who doesn't want to rule?"
"We're discussing treason." She's like a literal war hero, but Lord Dr. Evil's like
hmm I don't know I was supporting her for like half of the entire show but
I got a hunch. "He's temperate and measured. He's a man, which makes it more
appealing to the Lords of Westeros."
episode 5 kill me time to invade King's
Landing but not before burning lord dr. evil alive because he's doing some
treason. The invasion succeeds, and it is absurdly one-sided and easy
turns out it does not matter at all that Daenerys lost half her forces or two of
her dragons they invade the city in like 90 seconds and Tyrians like okay when
they ring the bells-- "Ringing the bells."
"When the bells ring." "If the city surrenders, they will ring the bells and raise the gates."
"I've always hated the bells. They ring for horror. A dead King, a city under siege."
"They're welcoming a new king."
"I've never known bells to mean surrender." "If the city surrenders they will ring
the bells and raise the gates." And then the bells ring, and then Daenerys is like
no I think I'm gonna go do some war crimes and then like does 9/11 times 100
"9/11 times a hundred. Jesus, that's..." "Yes. 91 thousand 100."
Episode Six. I long for death.
Triumph of the will shots all around Danny does her big fascism speech
and scary foreign language and Nazi clothes
The only non-white characters left in the show are the people who are
really into it. Tyrion's like, well, the madness has taken
her we should probably put her down like Old Yeller
"It's a terrible thing I'm asking.
It's also the right thing."
And Jon Snow, who has done nothing all season but say
she's my queen-- "She is my queen." --is like no, but then he goes and puts her down
like Old Yeller her one surviving dragon in a fit of
rage burns not the person responsible for her murder but the symbolism and
then he flies away with her corpse there is a trial in which the prisoner is
allowed to nominate the new king which no one has discussed in the intervening
months apparently. "And who has a better story than Bran the Broken?" And yeah, the
the omniscient guy ends up on the throne and we get our John Hughes ending where
the Kinslayer and the Queen Slayer just gets to go up north to snowchela and
and all of these people whose God Queen has been murdered by this guy are like
well okay I guess we'll agree to disagree and birthright monarchy is over
we have aristocratic oligarchy now instead, which is totally better.
The end.
so the ending was um was bad it was quite bad but the ending was in fairness
foreshadowed by other things being bad so it's not original of me to suggest
that Game of Thrones took a sharp dive in quality after season 4 some have
blamed that on the show running out of source material others have said as much
as the lack of interesting new characters as all your faves were
rapidly dying off which they weren't really in the books whatever I'm not
here for that so what really changed well as I see it
there were two main storytelling component shifts one that characters
let's take for instance Tyrion who are defined by their intelligence and
ability to read the writing on the wall as far as Westerosi politics go
"My brother has his sword, and I have my mind. And a mind needs books like a sword needs a whetstone."
suddenly he had to take a whole bunch of stupid pills in
order for the plot to get where it needed to be and number two where in
earlier seasons the plot was highly motivated by the social trends of its
fictional world see the rise in religious extremism in season 5 the show
completely opted to ignore them in later seasons because it was simply
inconvenient to the plot. Writer and researcher, Zeynep Tufekci, wrote a
blog entry for Scientific American, in which she posited that the shift lying in
the fact the first few seasons were dominated by sociologically driven
storytelling ie characters responding to a broad physical and social institution
and that the latter seasons were driven by psychologically driven storytelling
as in driven by the characters themselves and therefore we're more in
line with typical Hollywood storytelling I half agree with this the show's plot
and point of view has always been extremely character driven and always
extremely in line with Hollywood's storytelling in that way the plot is
driven by a few powerful people trying to figure out how best to manipulate the
society they lived in to their will.
"When you play the game of thrones, you win or you die."
But I will agree that earlier seasons had the main characters making
decisions less based on personal whims and more in response to social trends
We had war, politics, religion, and so on. But
really where things fall apart can be traced to one underlying main problem
the showrunners had a destination in mind and a set length of time to get
there meaning they had to bend the character actions and world around the
destination rather than allowing the characters in the world to reach the
destination organically. But the problem is the characters they wrote kind of
developed a life of their own and the characters in the show are not the same
characters as the characters in the books some see this clusterfuck as a
problem of having a planned ending although I personally think you always
kind of need to have a good idea of where you're going in a series it's just
that whenever you're working towards an ending you kind of have to accept that
you might not get there the way that you think you will or in how long you think
it will take. Right buddy?
seems take time to write it 1,500 pages long
some people can't even read them
So before we really get into where we got
first let's talk about how we got here
so stop me if you've heard this about Game of Thrones it's fantasy for people
who don't like fantasy this was a popular selling point in the press back
in the show's first few seasons and given the different landscape of the
time it's easy to see why. Fantasy did well in film, television not so much.
When Game of Thrones debuted, prestige Soprano-style television that happened to also
be genre fiction was mostly non-existent and/or relegated to cable networks like
SyFy then called the SCI FI channel. It was a kind of thing that had a cult
following on LiveJournal not the kind of thing your cousin Brian who still
tailgates at Penn State despite having graduated a decade ago would have any
interest in discussing at the family reunion this dichotomy is of course
complete nonsense there isn't anything appreciably
non-fantasy about A Song of Ice and Fire that sets it apart from the rest of the
genre but try telling cousin Brian that in 2010 but only nerds appreciate that
kind of nuance so in order for a fantasy show to be worth the time and interest
of non-genre fans on a premium subscription channel, it can't just be
regular fantasy with its you know wizards of great import and prophecies
and heroes what were destined No it had to be hot fantasy that fucks the word of
mouth narrative around the show quickly devolved into a message of see how Game
of Thrones subverts fantasy expectations because we've never read a fantasy book
besides Lord of the Rings before see this isn't your wide-eyed brotherhood of
man too much hugging and forehead kissing fantasy for nerds this is
hardcore violent darkly cynical titty besotted fantasy hot fantasy that fucks
"Thank gods for Bessy and her tits." Game of Thrones also came about at the dawn of
what has become to be known as the golden age of television we could go on
for a while as to the validity of this label but for now let's just take for
granted that, yeah, sure this is the golden age of television. Here we are
this is it. Weeee. What does that mean? Broadly, the
golden age of television is marked by a period of serialized prestige drama that
debatably began with The Sopranos and has now become an oversaturated market
with not only cable and premium channels ie HBO and Showtime
but with streaming venues themselves less encumbered with budgetary
constraints like Amazon and Netflix not only piggybacking off of the success of
premium cable but sometimes outshining it we've hit a period of over saturation
that is referred to by some as peak TV and while that might lead to some truly
excellent polished high budget art that we've genuinely never seen before
the push for networks is more to become the next big thing so when you're
writing your series novel comic TV whatever there are broadly two ways you
can go about it you know the ending or you don't
Breaking Bad is widely considered to have one of the best most coherent most
satisfying finales and all of prestige television according to creator Vince
Gilligan it was designed to be closed ended and not have even the possibility
of going on indefinitely it's really incumbent upon us to bring it to as
satisfying a conclusion as possible and the only way we'll have a chance at
doing that is to know exactly when it is that we're going to end and also to have
that ending not be too far off in the future on the other side of the coin you
have shows like Dexter and Lost, where the showrunners had no end game plan, and
Lost is perhaps the most emblematic of the problem of a concept with no end
game in mind JJ Abrams is infamous for his mystery box approach to storytelling
that presenting an audience with a tantalizing mystery let's say about
someone's mysterious parentage-- "For my family.
They'll be back." --is a great way to keep them engaged, whether you know the
solution to that mystery or not but planned finales can also create problems
Vox writer, Emily VanDerWerff, wrote about the danger of planned finales in the
wake of Game of Thrones she points to Breaking Bad as an example of a show
that found a way to thread the needle of planned finale with the organic
storytelling that comes with television and after Gilligan and company
meticulously plotted season 2 they more or less plotted the rest of the show on
the fly. According to VanDerWerff, "This is the
paradox of TV you'd think that having a satisfying ending would require having a
rock-solid plan to get to that ending but the opposite is often
true because the more you know about how a story is going to play out in the
macro the more the micro just becomes a series of items checked off a list."
knowing the goal you are working towards is great but only if you leave room for
the fact that characters and the relationships can change during the life
of the show even if you totally know where the show is going so with Game of
Thrones that was a benefit and a handicap the showrunners knew where they
were going, even if the actors didn't.
"Jon's eyes open as well, already filling with
tears for a moment neither movies as if moving will make this real we see John
with his hands still on the hilt of the dagger he just lodged in Dany's heart
her strength leaves her and she collapses to the marble he keeps her in
his arms and she falls." "And then raises his sword to strike, but something is
hurtling toward him out of the dark."
"Standing before the iron throne
Dany steps forward and they plunge their knives into him he takes more punishment
than Hodor took at the door then Barret took in the gray--" And in broad strokes, I
don't doubt that where D&D ended up was where Martin intended to go however they
create big problems in that taking shortcuts making character changes and
cutting certain characters and subplots altogether they've written a different
story to the one that Martin wrote their characters are different characters than
the ones Martin was writing Cersei is different Daenerys is different Tyrion
is way different. Damn you, Peter Dinklage for just being so ding dang dong
charismatic and handsome
we can't make him the bad guy who cares if he strangled his lover in a jealous
rage or in self-defense as it is in the show
I guess that's what we're going with.
"I'm sorry."
Yeah see, the way this arc played
out was a red flag. This scene makes no sense given how both Tyrion and Shae
evolved away from their characterization in the book.
"I am yours and you are mine."
while still getting their book ending so the showrunners were given a destination
but when the show they wrote in the characters they created kind of went in
directions that did not work with that predetermined destination or at least
we're going to have to take a very different way to get there who cares
let's do it anyway so no discussion about prestige television is complete
without a talk about The Sopranos, and this will spoil how The Sopranos ends, so
fair warning.
"You know, I still have people asking me what the hell was that
last episode? Like..."
The Sopranos begin the era of prestige television drama in earnest
like Game of Thrones it was a massive critical darling and commercial success
out of the gate so like Game of Thrones when The Sopranos ended after six
seasons there was a lot of buildup for how it would end
Would one of Tony's many enemies gun him down? Would he slaughter all of his
enemies in some Pyrrhic victory how would his relationship with dr. Melfi
play out would he walk away from the life altogether we get answers to some
of these questions. Dr. Melfi cuts him off when she realizes Tony is a lost
cause and Tony does not walk away from the life the final scene in the show
takes place at a diner where Tony is scheduled to meet his family for a
regular dinner Carmela shows up his daughter has some
difficulty parking. But then we notice that several of the other patrons in the
diner are acting kind of suspicious and giving Tony the side-eye. Journey's Don't
stop believin increases in volume to the point that it's almost overwhelming
there's this really dissonant dark comedic tone the scene is building and
building in tension and then....
it cuts to black, and that is the end of The
Sopranos and as with Game of Thrones 12 years later people lost their shit
made a lot of people angry
creator David Chase knew how it was going to end for a
while saying no one was trying to be audacious honest to god we did what we
thought we had to do no one was trying to blow people's minds or thinking wow
this will piss him off people get the impression that you're trying to fuck
with them and it's not true."
I actually really liked the ending of The Sopranos.
I think it works both thematically and dramatically. Tony might have died in the
moment it cut to black or he may just have had a boring dinner but as long as
he's stuck in that life he'll always be living on a knife's edge.
"Would I have done anything differently with the ending of the show? I don't think so."
But The Sopranos set the stage for memorable endings and another lesson was learned
here the wrong one in my opinion a memorable even controversial ending
is the same as a good one.
Fan service also merits discussion here because fans in
recent years have had a much more active role in shaping media typically the
longer a thing goes the more fan service gets jammed in to keep people engaged
and not all fan service is bad one of the positive changes from the books is
the fight between Brienne and the Hound in season four
"You're the wrong one to watch over her."
"That's what you're doing? Watching over her?"
"Aye, that's what I'm doing."
in the book The Hound goes down from blood poisoning
from a stupid wound he gets in a bar fight
but in the show you have two characters you both care about fighting over Arya
to the death? Like, I want them both to wi--No! No, my children! I'm screaming.
So... Cleganebowl.
At best, Cleganebowl is/was a fan theory
that combined both book and TV lore a lot of internet meme culture and the burning
desire to see this giant man kick the ass of this other giant man and a
revenge fight so epic that it would rock the foundations of Westeros itself.
"You know who's coming for you. You've always known." Get hype.
See, the Hound looks the way he
does and is afraid of fire because his brother the mountain shoved his face
into a fire when they were kids and ever since then he's wanted him some revenge
for that and some other things all about that revenge just really really hates
that mountain that rides. Hates him. "My brother's alive." Hates him, the Hound.
"We come across my brother, maybe we can both cross a name off a list." Wants revenge
and well yeah the meme itself was a lot of fun and we got hype and everything, as
a dramatic plot point it's um it's really fucking dumb one not only is the
mountain functionally dead by this point like Oberyn Martell killed him and what
we have now is basically just a mindless zombie that does whatever
Cersei says. But two, the books make it pretty clear that Sandor is finally at
peace with himself and his need for revenge. "If the gods are real, why haven't they
punished me?" "They have." Revenge being mistaken for justice is a big thing in
the books and we will get to that later his arc wasn't about getting revenge it
was about moving past that in the show, I... "You can still help a lot more than
you've harmed, Clegane. It's not too late for you." "Never too late to stop robbing
people to stop killing people start helping people never too late to come back."
One season later
"You know is coming for you. You've always known."
One season later
Who was forcing you to do this? He's like a zo--
he's dead he's a shell he's a zombie Cleganebowl happens while Daenerys is
doing some war crimes and King's Landing is burning they're fighting for nothing
the hound has long since moved on this has not been his motivation for a while
Gregor is an empty zombie shell and the world is ending outside and everyone
here is about to die anyway so who cares The Hound isn't even fighting for Arya
he's not protecting anyone
"Look at me. Look at me! You want to be like me?"
You two rode a thousand miles on horseback together and you only now decide to have
this conversation?
"Go home, girl. The fire'll get her or one of the Dothraki."
Aghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!
Also Arya murdered all of House Lord Life Alert and baked them into pies and
fed them to their father.
I'm pretty sure her revenge quest is shot the moon in
comparison to yours, sir.
"I'm no sir."
So Cleganebowl had no reason to exist
other than the concept becoming mimetic on a god tier level
"Yeah. That's you."
"That's what you've always been."
fanservice also comes with the double-edged sword of in this case the
show's self-imposed burden of needing to be smarter than the fans which becomes
harder and harder in a world with massive subreddits dedicated to
theorizing about the thing in incredible detail so somewhere along the lines,
subverting expectation stopped being a thing one did because it benefited the
story and more a thing one did because, well...
"We hoped to kind of avoid the
expected." "She seemed like the best candidate provided we weren't thinking
about her in that moment."
this isn't necessarily unique to Game of Thrones
Westworld creator and showrunner Jonathan Nolan admitted that an episode
from season two had to be rewritten after reddit fans guessed a major
upcoming twist reddit has already figured out the third episode twist said
Nolan so we're changing that right now it's annoying sometimes when people
guess the twists and then blog about it you can't complain when people are that
engaged," he added. "It's very gratifying, but stop doing it please."
I can't help but think that fans should be allowed to, like, gather in groups online and
theorize and have fun without networks like watching in and going oh no they
figured us out we better go change the show because we only exist to outsmart
reddit like you don't have to be unexpected for the sake of being
unexpected. But when your show is kind of known for that... "We hope to kind of avoid
the expected." "These people have guessed the secret that I'm gonna reveal in book
6. People have already guessed that here, and book 2 is just out. You really have two
choices there you can ignore it and proceed with your plan despite the fact
that some people know where you're going, or you can get all panicky and say, oh my
god they figured it out I can't let that be I'll have to change it I'll have to
go in a different direction. And I think some writers do that, and I think that's
always a mistake." "Yeah." "You know, if you've planned your book that the butler did it
and then you read on the Internet someone has figured out that the butler did it,
and you suddenly change in midstream and it was the chambermaid who did it then
you screw up the whole book." So, I'm not saying that
Benioff and DB Weiss were writing the show with the intention of both
indulging in fanservice while also avoiding correct fan theories I'm just
saying this culture inevitably influences and infiltrates the writing
of a show that was already handicapping itself by limiting its runtime for
no reason except that you're really over the show that made you famous and you
got a Star War you need to go ruin--I mean, make. "Why is it ending?"
"I don't know.
Ask Dave and Dan when they come through. We could have gone to eleven twelve
thirteen seasons but they I guess they wanted a life." The journalist who
reported that quote from Benioff diplomatically described his reaction to
it as frustrated in hindsight that's a bit of an understatement seeing as
any thematic coherence in the series fell apart after Martin stopped being
actively involved in the production after wouldn't you know season four what
are the odds but to me it betrays a certain lack of curiosity on the part of
Benioff and Weiss and it makes me wonder why are they even dedicating their lives
to storytelling if they are so uninterested in themes especially given
that they adapted a book that was so heavy with them. "What unites people?
Armies? Gold?
Stories. There's nothing in the world more powerful than a good story."
Yeah, so this series functionally ends with these two chucklefucks like fetishizing
storytellers as the most important people to ever exist but yeah themes are
for eighth grade book reports we want to avoid the expected because that means
it's bad. Okay.
"And who has a better story than Bran the Broken?"
Aggghhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh!!!!
So you might be asking did you really just spend 45 minutes whinging? "I'm not whinging."
"Your lips are moving and you're complaining about something. That's whinging."
And you didn't even get into any specifics? Yep.
yeah we got about 10,000 words worth of our whinging. "That's whinging."
In our Google Doc before we realized that this was this is gonna be two-parter yep it's
two-parter sorry and this part is the sponsored part are you interested in
thematic coherence? Do you have a book report you need to write? Are you in the
8th grade don't have time to read the Song of Ice
and Fire well why not listen to it using audible audible members now get more
than ever before members choose three titles every month one audiobook plus
two audible originals that you can't hear anywhere else members also have
unlimited access to more than a hundred audio guided fitness and meditation
programs I love those and you might be like Game of Thrones is 33 hours long
and that's a lot--to which I say, the first book I recommended for audible was
Disney War and that sucker is three hours longer and it's also 33% shorter
if you listen to it at 1.5 times speed like I do right now I'm listening to the
Hugo nominees for best novel if you didn't hear Angelina and I are actually
nominated for a Hugo this year for our Hobbit duology hey I might get to meet
George RR Martin at his losers party. Oh no.
I'm going to let best-selling author
John Green deliver the URL information for how you could start listening with
the 30-day trial and your first audiobook is free you can go to
audible.com/LindsayEllis that's audible.com/LindsayEllis to get
your first audiobook free or or or or text text Lindsay Ellis to 500500
that's Lindsay with an A Ellis with an E and an I, two L's and an S to 500500 and
get your first audio book free
I'm glad they let me keep the same URL