So I've been kind of sad and bitter  and full of rage lately for some reason
and so since Disney is the source of all my ills,  I of course spent a lot of time on Disney + in  
the last few months. After watching Moana for  roughly the 400th time, I started watching The  
Little Mermaid a lot. So we're gonna talk about  the little mermaid. Well this is the brand  
now. Miserable lonely and depressed pathetic. And all of the  effort it deserves. You get nothing. So  
why The Little Mermaid? Well, I kind of wanted to  reevaluate how my feelings on the movie had changed  
because I was mildly like a detractor at some  point in history I think I don't know I don't  
remember the 2000s very well. But my opinion is  now that the little mermaid is good actually uh  
it's not the greatest ever, but you know pretty  good. And so around my 10th little mermaid rewatch  
in the month of April, I found myself revisiting  all of the mermaid discourse of the time along  
with the Disney princess discourse in general  you know in the 2000s early 2010s.
And in this state of brain decay, I now find myself  wondering like was all that necessary?
Like am I the only one who remembers the lazy Disney  pop feminisms of the 2000s because I'm going to  
go out on a limb and say that those hot takes  that called out Disney movies as not being girl  
boss enough "I'm not under the sea but standing  on dry land. The moral of my story's changing for a man."
These criticisms that have been incorporated  into like 10 Disney movies ever since "Lions, attack!"
"Let's go girls." They've aged more poorly than the  movies themselves, especially the little mermaid.
So we're making a thing out of it. I guess I'll make  it into a list. I mean lists used to do well the  
algorithm I don't I don't know if they still do. Pathetic. And we're going to do it in two sections.  
First we're going to talk about the  bad feminism of the 2000s and 2010s  
because that's something I haven't really  seen much reevaluated and then the gay  
[ __ ] because it's pride month it's time to  talk about some gay [ __ ] "Let's go lesbians let's  
go lesbians excuse me lesbians coming through!"  So this is like the top something number  
about the little mermaid "Somebody should find  that poor animal and put it out of its misery."
Part two something something feminism. So one  thing I feel like we kind of need to I don't  
know metaphorically smash is the lens of the lazy  pop feminism of the late 2000s through which we  
have all for some reason agreed to view Disney  princess through "Then I have to assume you made  
a deal with an underwater sea witch where she took  your voice in exchange for a pair of human legs." 
"No good lord who would do that?" "Wait you got engaged to someone you just met that day? "Yeah, anyway"  
Like for a while in the late 2000s  these memes are all over the place. Save a  
prince's life with her only asset her sexuality.  Did we even watch the same movie? "Stupid."  
So in addition to these really lazy one-dimensional bad  faith reads of all these movies we also had the  
princesses are bad role models for my daughters  movement. A 2007 article by Barbara Ehrenreich  
reads: "Disney likes to think of the princesses"   This how I assume she talks "Disney likes to think of  
the princesses as role models, but what a sorry  bunch of wusses they are. Typically they spend  
much of their time in captivity or a coma, waking  up only when a prince comes along and kisses them."  
So the thing about Disney Princess is it's not  a trope, it's a brand. It's a literal trademark.  
the Disney princess brand reached its peak in  the late 2000s and was the undisputed leader in  
princess merchandising "Today is a perfect day to  get married." "I wish they taught shopping in school."  
With its major move in the year 2000 being when it  decided to package princesses snow white sleeping  
beauty Ariel belle cinderella jasmine Mulan and  Pocahontas under the same marketing umbrella. This  
move spawned a sales juggernaut. Disney and 300  licensees sell 25,000 princess themed products.  
By the year 2007, the franchise was worth $4.6 billion. I feel like what people are  
grasping for is a critique of a sort of capitalist  indoctrination that Disney is so effective at  
with children, and it is valid to question the way  that it follows people through their entire lives. 
Hell, I am living that right now. But how to  quantify the way that that affects people in such  
a complex system is really difficult and arguably  impossible so the way they went about this  
was to try to make a coherent narrative a through  line if you will: if girl like Disney princess then  
later girl can't be CEO and girl boss. Take  for instance this the dumbest critique from  
the women and work commission reporting on gender  and opportunities gaps found that while girls are  
outperforming boys at school at university they  still earn less than men and the pay gap may be  
widening one of the main reasons for this says  the commission is that little girls spend too  
much time in the Wendy house playing with dolls  or pretending to be nurses while their little  
brothers want to be Bob the Builder. From an early  age girls are being socialized it seems for the  
caring soft feminine jobs that perpetuate gender  stereotypes job segregation and lower pay rates.  
Yeah, so it's totally valid that like child care  and caretaker roles pay less. Girls shouldn't  
want to do those. They should want to be Bob the Builder. "You've had a busy day then?" "Not really."  
okay so let's ignore how [ __ ] shitty  it is that these people just accept  
that extremely labor-intensive caretaker jobs  just deserve to be paid less because feminine  
the consequence of Disney princesses isn't that  lil riley here isn't going to lean in and be a CEO  
the consequence is that she's going to grow  up with nostalgic feelings towards the Disney  
company and go to Disney world once a year once  she has little rileys of her own "Where do you  
find a Mickey pretzel at magic kingdom and is  it a snack on the dining plan? Well come see us  
at disneyparksmomspanel.com." And that is worth interrogating but to frame Disney princesses  
is inherently harmful because they might widen  the pay gap or something is just so inherently  
dishonest and kind of revealingly misogynistic in  its own right the question of how the Disney brand  
indoctrinates children is a question with no clear  answers and it's not really compelling enough to  
get people mad to click on the click bait so they  have to frame it as Disney princesses are harmful  
actually Mckayley might end up as a nurse instead  of a CEO Ariel is the reason for the wage gap
so while I think these discussions are worth  having it turned real stupid real fast like  
we went from hmm how might Disney princess  influence girls self-perception and reinforce  
heteronormativity? To pretending like they  had any concrete answers to these questions  
ah yes the wage gap it's all Ariel's  fault. Anyway, it's a really shallow  
use of your pop feminism and I vote that  we retire it now please "I'm sorry madame."
Part feminism something .5: Ariel's  voice "What I want from you is your voice."  
"My voice?" The bad feminism of that era also  had this focus on Ariel's literal voice  
which is just such a hyper literal reading of the  movie that it's a wonder the Thermians didn't come  
up with this. "No not not historical documents  they're not all historical documents I mean  
surely you don't think that  Gilligan's island is uh"
"Those poor people." Eric doesn't like her because she's silent. If anything it's despite that see  
Ariel's voice is the first thing that Eric knows  about her if anything that is the thing that makes  
her hot not just to Eric but to everybody it's the  first thing that is said about her in the movie  
"She has the most beautiful voice." In effect, Eric doesn't know her when he falls in love with her  
voice he falls in love with an idea. "You can't speak? Then you couldn't be who I thought."
But in the three days that they hang out he actually  gets to know Ariel who he thinks is you know
"Eric that's the first time I've seen you smile in weeks." And eventually he kind of likes her  
for who she is even though she doesn't have  the one thing he was so hung up on that hot  
ass voice Ariel is basically a space alien and  Eric is cool with that and honestly i relate to  
that. Grimsby here kind of nails it. "Far better than any dream girl is one of flesh and blood."  
Eric is in love with an idea but Ariel is  a person in the flesh that he actually kind  
of has to you know do stuff with anyway I'm  not saying this is like the most textured and  
nuanced romance in the history of cinema but to  frame it like Ariel is silencing herself to make  
herself hot is just like it's just bad media  criticism like that's just not what happens  
in the movie memes. "Oh my men preferred a lady who could grow a pair."
Part feminism .something something  Ariel's character arc. This was another one  
that I remember kind of like putting forth that  Ariel doesn't grow much in the narrative because  
she knows what she wants at the beginning  and then she goes for it and then she gets  
it and another kind of dishonest framing is  that she again gives up everything for a guy  
"The moral of my story is changing for a man."  When really the guy was just the inciting incident  
like look at her look at this nerd look at her  like man cave like if she was a dude in the suburb  
that would be just like nothing but Simpsons  pinball machines so really her desire for access  
to the human world is a desire for mobility and  for knowledge and she wants all of these things  
way before she lays eyes on prince Eric this  is a departure from the original Hans Christian  
Andersen story in this one the mermaid dies but  gets the opportunity to earn an immortal soul  
through 300 years of indentured servitude some  feminists have argued that Anderson's version  
allows the mermaid to self-actualize outside  of an attachment to someone else which makes  
the original more feminist actually god why  does everything have to be a competition geez  
but that's not what happens in the Anderson  story instead of being in service to a mortal  
guy she enters the service of the ultimate  patriarch for 300 years no less either way it's  
not her choice to do this thing and it certainly  isn't an empowering tale of autonomy it is which  
patriarchy do I subsume myself to in order to get  that immortal soul to a god or to a husband and I  
certainly don't think that Hans Christian Andersen  was trying to make an empowering tale for young  
feminists so uh yeah just let ariel have the guy  lady let her have her sparkly 80s dress it's fine
Part four true love trademark  "Leave everything behind for a guy I just met  
because he's the best bet a princess can" So Disney films of the 2000s and  
the 2010s they wanted to demonstrate  growth within the brand and much of this  
was characterized by metatextual criticism of  earlier disney canon i.e snow white cinderella  
sleeping beauty and even the little mermaid  which at the time was barely 20 years old
"A book?" "I know it's not that fairy tale book you wanted, but this is better." We got Enchanted  
"Don't sing. It's okay you know let's just walk."  We got Tangled. "Did Rapunzel and I ever get  
married? That after years and years of asking and  asking and asking I finally said yes." We got it  
in Frozen. "You can't marry a man you just met." "you  can if it's true love." Wow did we get it in Frozen.  
"I could kiss you i could i mean I'd like  to i may I?" Ralph breaks the Internet.
"Do you have daddy issues?" "I don't even have a mom."  "Neither do we!" Thanks I hate it. So the function  
of these motifs and these narratives is to feel  like criticism but really it's just reassuring  
the audience that the fairy tale formula is  fine actually the main difference here between  
metatextual Disney and earlier Disney is that  the couple gets married after like a year or two  
instead of like a week or two  "And you are?" "Giselle." "Oh Giselle!  
We shall be married in the morning!" So even within  these newer films there's this reassurance that  
the heteronormative fairy tale formula is fine  actually and it does jive with your modern  
feminist cynicism. See? Rapunzel and Eugene waited  a while to get married. Feminism! "You mean to tell  
me you got engaged to someone you just met that day?" Frozen hinging so much of its plot on that is  
part of why I can't really get on the Frozen train.  "If only there was someone out there who loved you."  
"The prophecy is true." That and whatever  terrifying evil genius engineering made it crack  
for toddlers another thing about Disney repeatedly  lampshading that we got married too quickly thing  
is it doesn't actually happen in any Disney movie.  Like pick one. Maybe they fall in love fast quote  
you know fall in love but there there's never any  definite time with regard to the marriage thing  
tangled wow they waited 18 to 24 months well we  don't know that didn't happen in cinderella or  
sleeping beauty or 101 dalmatians or  even a little mermaid like we don't know  
how much time elapsed between true love's kiss and  marriage so you're not even subverting anything  
Disney come on. So this meta textual oh we took  a minute to make sure our feelings are real bs  
doesn't actually contradict any of the old  movies yes even cinderella and snow white the  
thing about true love is it's a narrative utility  thing it doesn't have to be super super literal  
especially in movies with literal magic in it  where love is hinted to be this magic power.
"I will make you a potion that will turn you into a human  for three days. Got that? Three days."
In the Little Mermaid, it functions as a ticking clock. Three days  feels urgent, okay? Chop chop. Ticking clock. So that's  
why I'm super sick of this form of Disney meta  textual criticism. It feels like growth but it  
isn't because it doesn't actually contradict  anything because if it did that would be bad  
"Oops I'm so sorry."
Part something character arcs So in screenwriting terms, a character arc is often defined by a
want vs. a need. The character has a want which is  usually an external motivation "All I want to do  
is go to distance." And a need which is like sort of  an internal motivation i.e Momi wants to be a las  
Vegas showgirl but she needs to um "I like nice tits. I always have. How about you?" "I like having nice tits."
Okay maybe that's a bad example.  "Must be weird not having anybody [__] on you."
Okay Aladdin wants to you know be rich  and get the girl but what he needs to  
do is like learn to be honest about  who he is. There's a simple one.  
Disney does this all the time. So in the little  mermaid Ariel does have a concrete want i.e an  
external motivation. "I want to be where  the people are." But not really a need she  
doesn't really need to learn anything she  doesn't really grow during the narrative  
she has a goal she strives for it the end she gets  it so i guess the question is does the character  
need to have growth in order for there to be a  satisfying arc? Usually in early Disney movies they  
don't with the exception of movies like Pinocchio  generally the arc for princesses is wants to get  
married and does. And if there's any character  growth there's probably some like side character  
like you know like Grumpy learners who not hate  women anymore. Or the good fairies I don't know
okay maybe that's a bad example but anyway by the  90s a campbell style hero's journey character arc  
was pretty de rigueur for every Disney protagonist  but Ariel's conflict is almost entirely external  
which is kind of unusual for renaissance Disney  even in the Joseph Campbell rejecting the call  
to action phase of the character arc which is  exactly what it sounds like it is an external  
beat in the form of Sebastian singing Under the Sea. "Ariel listen to me the human world it's a mess."  
Ariel doesn't have any internal conflict about her  journey. It has to come from Sebastian. But here's  
my point about all this, this isn't a bad choice  it's just a choice. There's a story telling truism  
being that the protagonist is more compelling if  they have some hesitance before embarking on their  
adventure and ariel really doesn't you know she  was just looking for an excuse to get them legs  
but would the narrative really have been stronger  for it if she had? I don't think so. I mean I guess  
there could have been a version where Ariel's  the one who refuses the call to action for some  
reason and then change her mind when Triton's a  jerk, but I'm not sure how that would have added  
anything. But then there's also the screenwriting  question of whose story is it? It's not always the  
protagonist's. A popular example of this is from Mad  Max Fury Road. Who is the protagonist? Unambiguously  
it's Max. He's the point of view character, his  growth defines the narrative, but whose story is it?  
Well it's Furiosa's story. She is the one who  chooses to liberate the wives, it's her actions  
that spur the plot, she's the one who's pursuing  her lost home, she's the one who realizes that her  
home is now long gone, and she's the one who  ultimately learns that maybe the real green  
place is the friends we made along the way. So the  little mermaid as a movie is not Ariel's story  
it's King Triton's story. Ariel is the point of  view character. She is the protagonist but the  
character whose growth actually drives and  defines the story is Triton's "Then I guess  
there's just one problem left. "And what's that  your majesty?" "How much I'm going to miss her."  
And the conflict that drives the plot is this power  struggle between Triton and Ursula "Why king Triton,  
how are you?" King Triton begins the story as an  overprotective father who doesn't support his  
daughter's interests or pursuits he takes  it way too far when he finds out she's been  
hoarding human stuff immediately regrets it after  he goes overboard and Ariel also very justifiably  
[ __ ] off and Ariel being pretty passive in the  third act in large part because the twist in the  
third act is Triton giving up his power well  it kind of works, because again it's not Ariel's
struggle it was the power struggle between Ursula  and Triton that was the main conflict where Ursula  
figured out how to make this horny hot dummy into  a pawn in their proxy war that said i'm not saying  
it's perfect i do kind of feel like act 3 of the  little mermaid is the weakest link the elements  
at play here during Ursula's gigantism episode  are a little random none of it's really set up  
except for the idea that there are ships on the  bottom of the ocean there's no Chekov's Ursula  
getting big there's no Chekov's ship's bow. Eric  isn't established as an accomplished helmsman. You  
know it's not bad it's just not as strong as later  Musker and Clement movies like Aladdin or Moana.  
Aladdin has a really solid ending because  Aladdin is set up as kind of being a little manipulative jerk.
"Ah no I never actually wished  to get out of the cave. You did that on your own."
It's one of his chief characteristics. He tricks  the genie earlier and then he tricks Jafar at  
the end and the idea of genies as prisoners is  well established. "You wanted to be a genie you got it.
And everything that goes with it." So yeah I guess what I'm saying is the lack of an internal  
conflict is not necessarily bad especially  when there's a compelling external conflict  
but I feel like Ariel's passivity is not really  indicative of like feminist fail so much as  
you know the third act just kind of being  kind of random. We need to wrap this movie up.
All right so now it's time to talk about the gay [ __ ] Number six adaptation and the gays 
Another thing you always see with critiques  of Disney movies with regard to adaptation is you  
know something something they change the ending or  you know they remove the dark [ __ ] or whatever  
"Oh it doesn't look good." "It's hopeless absolutely hopeless." "You're telling me. I'm losing to a bird!"  
Probably the biggest adaptational change in  the little mermaid aside from the ending is  
the original story's focus on the mermaid not just  wanting the prince but wanting an immortal soul  
see mermaids like the Danish themselves don't  have souls they just live a long time but when  
they die they turn into sea foam unlike humans who  get heaven everlasting it's a pretty short story  
but honestly getting to the end of it is kind of  heart-wrenching the mermaid gives up everything  
for this guy only for him to patronizingly go on  about how he's her little foundling if he falls  
in love with her she gets a soul but you know he  doesn't he spends the whole story just kind of  
being really patronizing to her and treating her  like a child and like wow if only I could find  
a wife like you wow too bad you can't talk. "Dogs are idiots. Think about it Smithers if I came into  
your house and started sniffing at your crotch and  slobbering all over your face what would you say?" 
"If you did it sir?" But then he marries someone  else and the mermaid sisters go to the sea  
witch who gives them this dagger and they tell  the mermaid if she kills the prince she gets to  
turn back into a mermaid but of course at the last  second she just can't do it and the sun rises and  
she turns into seafoam but a bunch of I don't  know other magical angel adjacent beings well  
they show up and basically they tell her she  can come with them and be put into purgatory  
and a sort of indentured servitude to get an  immortal soul work for us for 300 years and you  
get your immortal soul so bittersweet ending  no prince but she gets her soul on layaway  
i guess in a weird way the original story  has more of a want vs. need character arc  
the mermaid wants that prince but she needs the  spiritual awakening she needs that immortal soul  
but anyway the book is gay AF because like  you know come on the mermaid wants this guy  
and he's like oh you're such a good friend man if  only I was into you we could totally get married  
if only I was you know into people like you like  even just reading this you're like Hans Christian  
Anderson wrote this about a guy right? Maybe. Hans  Christian Anderson was possibly asexual but you  
know definitely a Romantic and he had a lot of  love letters many of them unsent to this one  
guy who never ended up returning his affections so  you can tell this is a story about a longing for  
a person you can't be with and how that person  doesn't really want you and how that causes you  
pain every time you are near them. So you want  this dude you can't have, but at least there's god.  
Another thing about the queer theory reading of  the little mermaid is any version of the little  
mermaid is about passing. Anderson's version  can be read a few ways the most obvious being  
the crush he had on this dude that he could never  express because you know it was a different time.  
"Two bros chilling in the hot tub five feet apart cause they're not gay." But it also expresses his  
discomfort for passing in high society which he  was not born into and this high society was not  
kind to the nouveau riche like Hans Christian  Andersen this is another reason why the lazy  
feminist hyper literal mutilates her body for a  man criticism bugs me because it totally dismisses  
any reading of the text that is anything but  strictly heteronormative. In the current discourse  
the most obvious metaphor is the transgender one.  Hell one of the highest profile trans nonprofits  
in the UK is called mermaids but there are lots  of ways one can change oneself in order to pass in  
mainstream society. Ariel knows from basically when  she's old enough to know stuff that she doesn't  
really feel at home in the body she's in both in  the Disney movie and in the original story and so  
she goes to incredible lengths to change it. So these  cheap like Jezebel feminists of 2009 who were like  
"she gave up her voice and mutilated  her body for a man" like no like I mean that's not  
what happens but "She's got legs you idiot. She  traded her vice to the sea witch and got legs."  
Ariel's whole thing is breaking away from  exactly what her society is asking her to do  
so I'm not saying that the heteronormative  read is completely illegitimate but for  
people to treat it like that's the only  read is lazy and basic and I'm just kind of  
tired of it. So anyway so the OG short story  is gay AF. Moving on.
Part something the Disney  version is gay AF too just you know not the same way. "They weren't kidding when  
they called me well a witch." In the early days of queer theory this was like hmm why are all of  
villains queer-coded? "Oh I shall practice my curtsy." "I use antlers in all of my decorating."
but now we've more or less come around  to the correct opinion which is yes yes  
they are they are extremely queer-coded  and also they are awesome and we stan.  
"You know my last captain of the guard  was a bit of a disappointment to me." 
Ursula is more than queer coded. It is well  known that her design was heavily inspired by  
the drag queen divine who was most famous for  starring in John Waters films like Hairspray  
"I watched that [ __ ] and I'm embarrassed to be white." And Pink Flamingos. "Does blood turn you on?"  
"It does more than turn me on Mr. Vader it makes me [ __ ]" And female troubles. "I hate you [ __ ] you  
[ __ ] you both you awful people you're not my parents." Voice actress Pat Carroll  
conceived Ursula as like an aging Shakespearean  actress which explains so much of the performance  
"Look at me wasted away to practically nothing." "my poor little poopsies!" "And don't underestimate the  
importance of the body language." And she ends up as sort of a composite  
of drag and camp icons. Joan Crawford "You know you know where to find the boys and the blues."
Tallulah Bankhead "My good woman would you kindly leave  the premises before I grab your pink hair and  
pull it out by black roots." "Three days." Norma Desmond. "All right Mr. Demille I'm ready for my close-up."  
And of course Divine. "You're a pain too taffy a pain in my big [ __ ]" Like in a lot of ways  
this goes beyond coding this is clearly deliberate  especially considering how much poor unfortunate  
souls resembles a traditional drag show "But you'll find that nowadays I've mended all my ways"  
She uses her eels as a boa. This is also the first  Disney movie to use Alan Menken and Howard Ashman  
who were at the time best known for the Broadway  camp hit little shop of horrors quick note on  
Howard Ashman it's not a coincidence that the most  iconic songs of the Disney renaissance came out  
of those first three movies but then kind fff out after that "They're not like which means they must be evil." 
And that's not nostalgia that's Howard  Ashman who died from complications from AIDS in  
1991 and while it's not like Menken never wrote  any good music again I feel like he was at his  
strongest writing with Ashman. Ashman was deathly  ill during the production of beauty and the beast  
and if you really want some heartstrings tugged  listen to the people who worked with him describe  
the way he kept on trucking until the very end.  "Howard was physically there. He had lost a lot of  
weight he was you know he was wearing his shirt  with suspenders you know and trying to be as  
casual as possible and certainly didn't want to  project any sense of of illness at that point  
nobody else professionally knew that he was he was sick." Another thing that tends to get lost  
in analysis of this movie Menken and Ashman had  a huge influence not just on the music but also  
the story itself. Not only did they help shape  the story they had the songs and score written  
before animation even began and in that way also  helped shape the characters particularly Ursula  
who is defined by her big musical number. "The boss is on a roll!"
That's Menken and Ashman. Ursula's drag show  basically explaining gender performativity  
theory by way of Judith Butler but far  more entertaining. "You'll have your looks  
your pretty face body language." Menken and Ashman.  So the read of poor unfortunate souls as drag  
performance was deliberate Menken and Ashman  especially would have been steeped in New York  
drag culture. So I don't read this as Disney being  appropriative to me this is Ashman writing what  
he knows. So in my old age Ursula is far and away  my favorite thing in this movie possibly because  
I'm only about three years away from morphing  into her completely but I love Ursula the older  
I get as a brand Disney villains have always  been my favorite and of course most recent  
Disney movies don't do villains in the traditional  sense anymore like they'll do the bait and switch  
or the misunderstood or sympathetic motivations or  whatever this is but after shadow man and mother  
Gothel they kind of petered off on pure fun evil.  "Come on boys won't you shake a poor sinner's hand?"  
and I don't know what it is about evil without  nuance that I find so appealing in the case of  
Disney villains but i think it's really  just the fact that they're having fun
that everyone in a Disney movie is having fun  including the bad guy this is why of classic  
Disney I think Maleficent is the most beloved  she out of all of them is having a high old time  
people don't remember the Dalmatians they remember  Cruella look at how much fun she's having this is  
part of why of the renaissance Disney movies the  most beloved ones tend to have the most memorable villains.
And that's part of why the black  cauldron is widely considered the worst  
one I'm sorry guys I know you love John Hurt but he sucks in this.
in fact the black cauldron nearly ended the  animation studio until a great mouse detective the  
best Sherlock Holmes movie of all time don't @ me  quite literally saved the studio. "Smile everyone."  
Disney now owns the world thank you the great mouse detective. "I have the power." "Of course you do."  
I feel like it's not one of those situations  like Hunchback of Notre Dame where we all kind  
of reevaluate whether it got a fair shake upon its first release because: "I'm losing to a bird!"  
Everybody likes the little mermaid and you know  it's not bad it's not the best one it's fine but  
you know there was that backlash that was kind of  lazy and targeting the popular thing because that  
was what the clickbait was for a while but thank  god we've moved on and now our clickbait is like  
I don't know UFOs? Wow what a good segue.
Hi I'm  Alan Smithee the director of this film. Are you tired of science fiction books with lyrical poetic prose? Do you like weird space aliens?  
are you a fan of the comical misuse of everyday  household items? I guess I didn't really do that  
did I? That was a missed opportunity I should have done that. "But you didn't." Well, you should pre-order  
my book Truth of the Divine. It is the second book  meaning it's the sequel to the first book which is  
Axiom's End. Oh boy see this is what you all tuned  in for this is the requisite self promo portion  
I'm gonna do better this time because it is a  better book it's got everything the Cheesecake  
Factory president Dick Cheney congressional  hearings Persians sadness and the reason I promote  
these now is that pre-orders are extremely helpful  not just for me but for any author you want to  
uh help so if you have a favorite author you want  to support and they have a book that's coming out  
pre-order their book and then like six months from  now you get like a magic package in the mail and  
then you'll be like oh right I guess I did order  that and the best thing about pre-orders is you do  
not get charged until the book ships so if I get  cancelled again you can just cancel your order so  
another question I get a lot will there be signed  copies? Yes! Do I know how that's gonna work? No.  
they haven't told me yet I'll put that in the next  video but if it's anything like last time it's uh  
putting your receipt for the thing you already  bought into like a online portal I don't know  
I'll let you know later it's going to be great so  the pre-order link for Truth of the Divine is in  
the description unless you are in the UK in which  case pre-order the book through your favorite  
UK-based online retailer because the UK edition  has a different publisher and that has caused  
some confusion. This also applies to Australia  New Zealand but not Canada and for those of you  
in the rest of the world um I don't know use a  vpn. I have no control over how to ship to what  
country or foreign language rights so far the only  country that has bought foreign language rights is  
Turkey. No I'm not kidding. I know Brazilians I  know consider petitioning your publishers also  
I will come to Brazil. I promise we were gonna go  in 2020 but there was you know there was a thing
Hand to your very very large Christ, we were  going to come in 2020. We'll come eventually.  
so anyway pre-order Truth of the Divine,  about which the New York Times has said  
nothing because they haven't gotten a review copy  yet. But in the meantime thank you for watching  
and I hope you spend the rest of  your pride month stanning Ursula.
don't be scared it's only me
and you can all come everyone can come  every creature in the sea can come
um well I'm not leaving you up there  alone this time you mean you'll go with me  
it doesn't look like I have a choice oh it'll  be so much fun you'll see come on let's go  
I'm not a fish I'm a dolphin that's not  very nice to say I'm your official royal pet  
don't you like me did you hear that  cece the prince is gonna marry her  
well I hope so Claudia I hope so stop the  storm stop the storm away sky creatures away
oh you'll be there getting there