Hello! My name's Abigail!
Welcome to my home, and to Philosophy Tube,
a show about ideas, a show
that now has one million subscribers!
I thought to celebrate,
we could bake a cake and learn a little
about a tasty subject, the philosophy of food.
We're going to bake a lemon drizzle cake today.
It's from Nigella Lawson,
something light, sweet and the English.
And she's made a recipe for lemon drizzle cake.
But you know,
you can only learn so much from books.
I could probably use a hand,
which is why I am delighted to welcome
onto the show British TV legend
and domestic goddess herself, Nigella Lawson!
That was a lie!
This video is not about food,
that wasn't the real Nigella Lawson,
and this is not my home.
It's a production studio that I rented for the day.
I live in a hole in the ground, do not Hasan Piker me!
I'm gonna be as honest here as I can.
I wrote quite a few drafts of this script,
baking a cake and talking about the philosophy of food,
and they were all fine.
But about a week before filming,
I realised that in every draft,
the episode always ended when the cake was done,
I never actually ate any of it.
And I realised that I was afraid to be seen on camera
eating a slice of cake, and it hit me like a truck.
Jesus, this video is not about food,
or it's not just about food, it's about fatphobia,
and beauty standards, and shame, and womanhood,
and eating disorders, and cosmetic surgery,
and ultimately it's about the philosophy of mind.
And I thought this is probably gonna be
really very hard for me,
but this episode is going to end
with me eating this goddamn slice of cake!
The first thing we're
going to do is wash our hands until they are squeaky clean.
And then, let's take a look at our ingredients.
We have butter, caster sugar, two lemons,
elderflower cordial, three eggs, granulated sugar, flour,
baking powder, salt - a cultural history of dieting! -
ground almonds and poppy seeds.
The poppy seeds are my own little addition.
You don't, mind do you, Nigella?
I'm going to start off by mixing our dry ingredients,
and we'll get to the sweet stuff in a bit.
Philosophers distinguish between objects,
like this recipe book, and subjects,
people like me and you and Nigella.
And they wonder what the difference really is
between the two.
What does it mean to be a subject?
What does it mean to treat a subject
as if she were an object?
And it turns out that food can tell us a lot.
The English philosopher John Locke
said that when people are born,
we are totally blank slates, "tabula rasa"
for any ancient Romans in the audience.
And over time, we experience the world.
We experience a little bit of this
and a little bit of that.
And that's where we get all our ideas and concepts from.
I'm giving Locke credit for this idea today,
even though similar things were said earlier
by the medieval Islamic philosopher Avicenna.
The idea that knowledge has to come from experience
is called empiricism.
And we can apply it to knowledge of the subject, this "I."
The Scottish philosopher David Hume
examined all his perceptions of sweet and salty,
sour and bitter, and found
that he could never have an experience just of "I" on its own.
"When I enter most intimately into what I call myself,
"I always stumble on some particular perception or other,
"of heat or cold, light or shade,
"love or hatred, pain or pleasure.
"I never can catch myself at any time without a perception
"and never can observe anything but the perception.
"I may venture to affirm of the rest of mankind,
"that they are nothing but a bundle or collection
"of different perceptions."
Which I suppose is quite intuitive.
Just me personally,
I find it difficult to imagine a subject
who has no perceptions at all, not a single point of view.
That's like being dead, isn't it?
In which case, there isn't a subject there at all.
But at the same time, it is strange to imagine a bunch
of perceptions floating around with nobody having them.
The delicious smell
of Hume's empiricism wafted across the sea to Prussia,
where it was nosed by Immanuel Kant,
very much the Mary Berry of philosophy.
And he said, "Hmm, the base is good,
"but I think you could have done better
"on this challenge, David."
Kant said, oh, you think the subject is a blank slate?
You think that you start out empty?
Well, perhaps you do, but you still started with the bowl.
Hume was right that we can't look inside ourselves
and experience a subject,
but that's only because it would be like trying
to put the bowl inside the bowl
or trying to look at the back of your own eyes.
You can't really do it.
Whatever the subject is in itself,
we can never know, Kant said, but it is in fact,
the logical precondition for experience.
Kant went on to say
that the subject can give itself rules.
He actually thought that's why morality
is so motivating for us,
because we give the rules to ourselves.
An example might be dieting.
When you diet, nobody twists your arm.
You impose the restrictions on yourself.
I remember a few years ago when I got into drama school,
when I got my acceptance letter,
I was suddenly seized by the idea
that I was too fat to be an actor, which is ridiculous.
There are actors of all different body types,
and also I wasn't especially fat anyway.
But I was raised in the late '90s,
early 2000s at the peak of the moral panic about obesity.
And so, I was really captivated by this fear.
And I went on a crash diet, and I lost between a quarter
and a third of my body weight in under six months.
I got unhealthy skinny unhealthy fast, and I felt bad.
I was cold and tired all the time.
And it actually hurt to sit down for long periods
because I had no ass.
And then when I was at drama school,
a friend of mine who was a personal trainer
invited me to come to the gym, and I found a new way
to discipline and persecute myself,
which was getting up at 5:00 a.m. every day
and going to the gym, and getting huge.
The philosopher Simon Critchley thinks that the subject
is in two pieces.
There's the bit that you experience
and then there's your ideal self,
the self that you feel you should be.
I'm giving Critchley credit for this idea here, even though,
as he acknowledges, similar things were said earlier
by the French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan.
According to Critchley,
your ideal self is the source of your conscience,
but it's also your internal critic.
So Kant said we can give ourselves rules,
and Critchley says, yeah, but the ideal self doesn't
just give us the good rules of morality,
it gives us rules, good and bad.
And whereas Kant thought we can live according
to the moral rules we give ourselves
if we formulate them correctly,
Critchley says the demands of the ideal self
can never be fully satisfied.
You can never completely live up to it,
because having that ideal there
is part of what gives your mind a structure.
He says we are most acutely aware of this split
when we feel shame.
"What we think of as a self
"is fundamentally an ethical subject,
"a self that is constituted in relation to its good,
"a self, ourself, that is organized
"around certain core values and commitments.
"The subject shapes itself in relation to a demand
"that it can never meet."
Hillel Schwartz, the historian
who wrote this history of American dieting,
says that between 1930 and 1980,
the market for products related to losing fat,
like diet pills and exercise machines, exploded,
and sellers began to target new markets,
like women, and older people, and then children,
and even babies, and even thin people who were, quote,
"In danger of being fat,"
and as a business strategy, that's genius,
because most people who lose weight
end up putting it back on.
But that means we get caught in these cycles
of shame and failure, and we become life long customers.
Economics 101 is supply and demand, right?
If there's a big enough demand,
somebody will surely supply it.
But in reality, you can create demand.
I've been reading a lot of articles
about people selling laxative tea on TikTok
that's meant to help you get skinny,
or people selling dangerous dietary supplements
that are meant to give you a slim-thicc figure,
or people marketing surgical procedures
to give you a bigger butt.
And Critchley's model of the split self
can actually help us understand what's going on there.
Adverts give you an ideal.
They infiltrate the ideal self
and encourage you to develop a particular subjectivity,
a particular relationship with yourself
to get you to buy the product.
Now that our dry ingredients are mixed,
I'm going to take the butter,
the sugar and the lemon zest and cream them together.
Now because of all the butter and the sugar
that we're adding, the cake
is going to end up quite high in calories.
And the funny thing about calories
is if you were to ask an ancient Roman
how many calories were
in the bulls' testicles they were consuming,
they would have said, "Quid dicis?"
which is Latin for "What the f*ck are you talking about?"
Calories are an excellent example
of what French philosopher Michel Foucault called
a technology of subjection,
a tool that encourages the subject
to develop a particular relationship with itself.
Foucault was particularly interested
in how institutions create the subjects
that live under them.
We get taught how to relate to ourselves,
not just by our families,
but also by schools, and the workplace, and the media.
"The individual is not to be conceived of
"as a sort of elementary nucleus, a primitive atom,
"a multiple and inert material
"on which power comes to fasten
"or against which it happens to strike.
"In fact, it is already one of the prime effects of power
"that certain bodies, certain gestures, certain discourses,
"certain desires come to be identified
"and constituted as individuals."
Foucault said that a big part of how subjects
are produced in the modern age
is with the cunning use of surveillance.
He was very inspired
by another philosopher called Jeremy Bentham,
who designed a hypothetical prison called the panopticon.
The panopticon is circular with cells arranged
around a central watchtower that can see into all of them.
The prisoners never know that they are being watched,
but there's always a possibility that they might be.
And so, they learn to act
as if they are always being watched.
Instead of planting a guard outside every cell,
you put one in their heads, put it into the ideal self.
And in this way, you create subjects
who are obedient and docile.
Foucault wasn't worried about a literal prison,
although people have tried to design real ones like that,
he was asking us to consider whether other institutions
might function in similar ways.
There's a tendency, especially in the online left,
to read Foucault as saying, "Whoo!
Power imposes things on us, it's scary!"
People hear the words, "technology of subjection,"
and they think subjection as an oppression.
But in fact, that's not what he's saying.
And if we examine his later work,
we can grasp his point better.
"If power were never anything but repressive,
"if it never did anything but to say no,
"do you really think one would be brought to obey it?
"What makes power hold good,
"what makes it accepted is simply the fact
"that it doesn't only weigh on us as a force that says no,
"but that it traverses and produces things.
"It induces pleasure, forms knowledge, produces discourse.
"It needs to be considered as a productive network
"which runs through the whole social body,
"much more than as a negative instance
"whose function is repression."
Subjection here just means producing subjects.
Foucault's point was that subjects are produced
by the society in which they live, for worse and for better.
I'm giving Foucault credit for this idea here,
even though similar things were said earlier by the Joker.
And we can think about calories
as a technology of subjection.
Calories are of course real in the sense
that miles and inches are real.
It's a measurement of energy.
But the popularisation of the measurement
and the idea that there is a recommended daily allowance
that you are supposed to be eating,
encourages us to have a very different relationship
with food than people of ages prior.
When a menu, for instance, has the calories listed,
that implies that it is something
that everyone else is thinking about.
And it works on you, despite the fact
that the real story of how the body puts on
or takes off weight is a lot more complicated.
There's a massive role for things like metabolism,
and your hormones, and...
You would be surprised how much a little hormone can change your body!
Though if you can't make your own, store-bought is fine!
There, now that the mixture is in the tin,
we're going to bake it in the oven for 25 British minutes
on 160 British degrees.
Don't forget to wear your oven gloves,
or you too might get an unsightly burn on your hand
and the knowledge that everyone can see it
and are certain to be leaving YouTube comments about it
will drive you absolutely mad.
When I was going through all this trouble with my body,
there was an added layer of complication,
because at the time, I was still living as a man
and very much in denial about being trans.
So I was determined to make manhood work
by becoming the ideal man,
this kindof... Chad Prince Charming
with the muscles and the beard, but like also really sensitive.
And this sort of thing happens to a lot of us.
A lot of trans girls join the army,
or we spend loads of time in the gym and we get really huge
as a way of trying to outrun the inevitable
or of satisfying the desire to change
without changing the one thing
that really does need changing.
Denial is not just a river in Egypt.
And something I noticed when I transitioned
is that for a man to sit down and finish a big meal
is often portrayed as a victory,
like he's conquered the plate.
For a woman to sit down and eat a big meal
is often portrayed as a failure,
like we've given in to temptation, we've been naughty.
We have let ourselves go.
So there's two different kinds of relation
to the self going on there.
Take a look at this advert from 1910
for Kellogg's Fat Reducer,
that's Kellogg's as in Corn Flakes, it was the same guy.
The skinny lady is saying, <1910 aristocrat voice> "Don't cry because you are fat!
"Send to Professor Kellogg and he will reduce you,
"as he did to me!"
And the big lady, who's crying,
I'm not sure if you can see this,
but she has a little moustache!
As a woman, it feels like if I'm fat,
then I'm gonna be disqualified from having gender?
Or rather if I'm fat,
then I'm not generally gonna be considered beautiful
and sexy, and therefore,
I'm gonna be disqualified from having gender?
And I think this might be part of the reason why I,
in particular, feel so much pressure to be very, very thin.
My womanhood is already seen by many people
- including her Majesty's government! -
as questionable.
And so, the temptation is to double down, right,
and try to be the perfect ideal woman,
even though that is impossible and dangerous to attempt.
And it's not just transness or fatness
that might be potentially "disqualifying."
I watched this great video a while ago
by a smaller YouTuber called TyTalks,
where she says that she feels quite pressured
to be hyper femme on camera,
like with hair and nails and stuff,
because as a darker skinned black woman,
her femininity is also seen as potentially in question.
For the last almost century,
feminist philosophers have been quite interested
in how women's subjectivities get produced,
how we are taught to understand and relate to ourselves.
And many have said that when it comes to food,
we are taught to regard ourselves
with discipline and surveillance.
By publishing a lot of images of skinny women
and writing about diets, we are taught that our bodies
are being watched by everyone else.
When I walked down the street
and I get catcalled by strange men,
I am reminded that my body is being judged.
And so, I learn to judge myself.
I mean look at Nigella!
This is a completely unrealistic body standard for women!
She's only five millimeters thick!
Now I see a lot of people talking
about this issue on social media,
but they talk about it in terms of posting,
like, oh, if you're not skinny,
then you don't get views on TikTok,
which, yeah okay, I understand that,
I have also been cursed to create content,
I signed my name in blood
and shook the Mephistophelian hand
of the algorithm, like and subscribe.
But I wanna take it one step further.
The American author Naomi Wolf says
this is more important than just getting likes,
and faves, and attention, this is about political control.
This is about women being encouraged
to regard our own subjectivities as lesser,
and therefore to be less inclined
to organise for women's rights.
"The more financially independent, in control of events,
"educated under sexually autonomous women become
"in the world, the more impoverished, out of control,
"foolish and sexually insecure we are asked
"to feel in our bodies.
"A quietly mad population is a tractable one."
Let's take an example from history.
Hillel Schwartz talks about the Reverend Sylvester Graham,
or maybe Graham, I'm not quite sure how it's pronounced,
but he invented what Americans call Graham Crackers
or... Graham Crackers?
He was kicking around in the U.S. in the early 19th century,
basically doing Jordan Peterson sh*t.
He used to give public lectures to women
about the evils of gluttony.
But it wasn't just about fat.
Graham's idea was that mothers
who fed their children too much
would produce anxious, unhappy children.
And those kids would then discover the evils
of masturbation and sex.
And then, they would have unhealthy relationships,
and they would produce unhealthy children, and so on.
And then, the nation would decline.
So women had to run the home in a particular way.
He did preach thinness and diets as an ideal,
but it was always about this bigger program
of social control.
That's not to say that there was a deliberate conspiracy
or anything, just that society produces people
who are prone to thinking of themselves
and societal problems in a particular way.
Yes, we live in a society, but also society lives in you.
So you're gonna like?
Mm, you're gonna like edit it down, right?
- [Interviewer] Yeah, yeah, we'll edit it into a rough cut,
and then we'll send that to you,
and you can obviously sign off on it.
If there's any bits that you want taken out,
we'll then make the final version and put it on the website.
- Awesome! - [Interviewer] Ready?
- Yeah. - [Interviewer] Okay.
Kelly, thank you for speaking to us.
- No problem. - [Interviewer] You've just
launched a new FinTech startup called Fierce.
We've all read about it, seeing it everywhere.
It's doing great work, so tell us what it does.
- Fierce is an all female financial technology company.
Our story starts in 2019
when I was doing some online shopping,
as I often like to do.
And I like to go through and clickclickclickclickclickclick
on everything that I want.
And I clicked on my cart and the dollar amount
was just like crazy huge.
Like I remember that this moment of pain when I saw it.
And I thought, what if I could make
that moment a bit more fun?
So I started Fierce.
Our mission is to provide payment solutions
to retailers and customers by gamifying
and streamlining online purchase platforms
in the post-payment sector.
I know, it's like, what is any of that?
So if you are doing some online shopping
and you use a website that has our software installed,
when you click on your cart,
you'll get a nice interface in soothing colors,
and you'll have the opportunity to play a little minigame,
to get a chance at winning a discount code.
And you'll also get the option to pay in installments
so you don't have to pay it all at once.
And we're doing super well.
We just launched six months ago,
and we're already valued at $400 million.
So... yay!
- [Interviewer] So when customers use Fierce,
they're taking on debt?
Let's say I buy $100 worth of clothes
on a website that's using Fierce,
I then owe you $100 paid in installments.
What happens if I miss a payment?
- Fierce offers consumers choices.
So we get a lot of testimonies from customers
who needed an outfit for a special occasion,
or they wanted to buy a gift for somebody,
and they didn't have the money right away.
So we empower them to meet their lifestyle goals.
- [Interviewer] Your company has drawn some criticism
for the fact that these payments
accrue quite steep rates of interest.
And some people have said
that gamifying online shopping risks enticing people
into financial debts that they can never pay back.
What do you have to say about that?
- We encourage all our customers
to be responsible with their shopping.
We're a very socially conscious company.
We have social impact meetings once a month.
We are committed to an environmentally friendly workplace.
And we have an all female-identified workforce
in the office too. - [Interviewer] All women in the office?
- That's right! We wanted to call it Amazons, like Amazons,
but Amazon was already taken, so
- [Interviewer] What advice would you give
to young women entering the workforce?
- You gotta hustle, you gotta grind.
I started at the bottom, I just graduated Stanford, a few years ago,
I had like $180,000 in my bank account and that was all!
So I got a job at my mom's law firm in Washington,
and I had to bust my ass, she did not make it easy for me.
- [Interviewer] What's your daily routine like?
- I get up everyday at 4:00 a.m.,
'cause I'm super into fitness.
And I go running around the lake where we live.
And I do yoga or Pilates if it's raining out.
And for breakfast, I have a juice and an egg white omelet.
And on Mondays, Thursdays and alternate Fridays,
I'm allowed a square of wholemeal toast 'cause I'm naughty.
Oh my God, when I had my second daughter, Jessica,
I went up to a size eight, I was like a blob!
I was so disgusted with myself.
- [Interviewer] And I understand
when you had your second child,
you were literally in the office the next day.
- That's right, so I started having contractions
about 11:00 p.m., and we left the office.
My assistant drove me to the hospital, and my husband,
Nick, and Malaika, came out to meet us.
- [Interviewer] Malaika? - Malaika is our nanny.
And they came out to meet me.
And that's where our little Jessica was delivered.
- [Interviewer] Did your team expect
to see you the next morning? - Oh, yeah, yeah yeah!
Women have been giving birth
and going back to the office since the dawn of time.
I always try to lead by example.
So last year when an employee of mine came to me
and said she wanted to take maternity leave, I said,
"Okay, what skills can you be developing in that time?"
'Cause that time is so often unproductive, right?
You're not doing anything,
I'm in labor, but I'm not working.
So when I had my first daughter, Trinity,
I took two weeks and I decided
to learn Spanish in that time,
so I could talk to our gardener.
And I made a plan with my employee
that we would have regular check-ins while she was on leave
so we could set goals
and ensure she was still generating value.
- [Interviewer] What drives you?
- My driver's name is Jacqueline, she's really cool.
- [Interviewer] No, I mean emotionally,
what drives you spiritually? - Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. - [Interviewer] Don't worry.
We can edit that out.
- I'm a very spiritual person.
I try to always be mindful when I'm in the office,
and I encourage all my employees
to practice gratitude every day
for the opportunities that our work provides.
- [Interviewer] Are you political at all?
- No, I just wanna give consumers choices
and focus on taking our mission forward.
- [Interviewer] Are you a feminist?
- Absolutely. - [Interviewer] But you're
not political. - No.
- [Interviewer] And apart from work,
what are you passionate about?
- What do you mean?
Mm, smells good!
While it's in the oven, it's time to mix the drizzle,
100 milliliters of elderflower cordial
and the juice of those two lemons.
We've encountered the ideas
that the subject is comprised of a relation to itself.
And furthermore, that relation is produced and cultivated
not always to our own benefit.
In the final chapter of his history of dieting,
Schwartz makes the point that a society which accepted fat
would necessarily question capitalism
and the power of markets that mess with people's lives.
It would be a society
in which more people got better health care
and had more control over their lives,
one in which we were all had bit more sympathy
with one another, in which we all felt a bit less shame.
What he describes is he knows a utopia,
but he makes the point that the food version of 1984,
the totalitarian dystopia, has already been realised
through the cultivation of eating disorders.
Naomi Wolf, who I cited earlier, is a survivor of anorexia.
She describes how she was encouraged
to develop a subjectivity based
around discipline and surveillance
in service of an ideal of thinness,
and it damn near killed her.
If you want a vision of the future, Winston,
imagine a bathroom scale smashing into a human face forever.
But if subjectivity is taught,
then it might be possible to relearn it.
Indeed, many feminist philosophers have said
that women should simply develop new feminist subjectivities
to lay the groundwork for political organising.
Having developed a new feminine subjectivity myself,
I highly recommend it.
Mm, now we need to poke holes
in it before slowly pouring on the drizzle
and sprinkling it with granulated sugar and poppy seeds.
And we are done!
I don't usually end these videos
by saying thank you for watching,
because part of me feels a little bit silly saying it,
but one million subscribers is a very special occasion.
All of us, I think, appreciate it enormously.
In particular, I'm grateful to the people
who support me on Patreon.
So this time, you know how deeply I'm mean it when I say thank you for w-
Okay, great, let's all hold hands and accept one another,
and we'll build a better world.
Fantastic, I agree, I'm on board.
So why am I still afraid to eat this cake?
I'm a feminist.
I know that beauty standards
are patriarchal constructs that hurt all of us.
I know a lot of the common discourse
about fatness is scientifically wrong.
I have read fat advocacy groups and fat activists
who advise breaking out of the cycle
of recrimination and shame.
And yet, I still want to be impossibly thin.
I still want the unhealthy, unreachable ideal.
And this is the real sh*t, right?
This is what I was afraid to show you
because I know how the internet reacts to people,
(especially trans women!)
who grapple with internalised problematic ideas
and privilege in realtime.
But I don't think it does anybody any good for me to pretend
like I'm a perfect ideal.
None of us is free of sin, we are all cancelled!
I know intellectually that my fear of eating this cake
is not rational and that it is grounded in ideas
that are harmful to myself and others.
And yet I am still afraid.
Now that's probably a sign that I need to get some therapy
for internalised fatphobia.
Yes! And - let's not just individualise
and privatise the problem,
because this is quite philosophically interesting, right?
Knowing that you're wrong, but believing it anyway!
It's called being English.
I think part of it
is that I can't just opt out of consequences.
I have to be on a film set next week.
And if I don't fit into my corset, then I can't do my job.
Even though BMI is a notoriously dodgy proxy for health,
I have trans friends who've been denied healthcare
because of their BMI.
Now one slice of cake is not really gonna make a difference,
but the point still stands.
Fatphobia has real consequences.
And I have real privilege as long as I stay thin.
But I don't think that my fear of eating this cake
is just about external coercion.
We talk about people being pressured to be thin,
but I do also enjoy going to the gym.
The world would be better if I didn't feel like I had to,
but I also like it.
The philosopher Heather Widdows says
that when we challenge dominant beauty norms,
it can be hard to get through to people
because it feels like a threat to the genuine joy
that comes with mastering the skills
of exercise, or makeup, or voice training,
or whatever it is.
It's hard to challenge dominant beauty norms precisely
because we sink so much effort into pursuing them,
and that effort is frequently fun.
And there's something else as well.
I mentioned on the show a few months ago
that I'm not a vegetarian.
I have it tried to go vegetarian a few times in the past.
And I found that when I started denying myself food
on moral grounds, it became quite difficult to stop.
I started seeing hunger and mealtime misery
as a sign of virtue.
Wolf says that one of the things
that kept her trapped in anorexia for so long
was the genuine pleasure she got
from looking down on other women who, quote,
"Lacked the discipline" to do it.
There is a dark, addictive pleasure
to being a little fascist towards yourself.
So it's not just that I feel pressured from outside
to not eat the cake.
It's that I have internalised the unhealthy idea,
taken it into my subjectivity,
that it would be good to deprive myself
of the joy of eating it.
And if Critchley is right,
then this is always gonna be a problem
because the structure of the ideal self
is always gonna be there
and it's always gonna be vulnerable to colonisation
by norms that were not chosen by me.
However, there might be something I can do about it.
As a trans person, I have an interesting history
with ideals and subjectivity,
and I have found that following the joy
has always been better than following the discipline.
There are some things about my body
that I would like to change,
but I'm happy to say I also love and accept it more now
than I ever did before.
And I got to this place by following the joy.
And funnily enough,
I was reminded of this by Nigella Lawson!
She has a lovely little essay on pleasure and guilt
in which she says, basically,
you gotta fight fire with fire.
You've got to fight the unhealthy pleasures
of self persecution with genuine pleasure.
"Eating is such a huge and elemental pleasure,
"what a strangely puny act to want to police it.
"What I refuse to live with,
"categorically and essentially set myself against
"is the erosion of pleasure by dint of turning it
"into a means of self persecution."
That's some pretty good cake.
Now that our mixture is made,
it's time to grease the tin