Hello, I'm Abigail.
Welcome to Philosophy Tube.
I've got a bit of a special treat for you this month!
Athena, the goddess of wisdom,
got in touch with me
(turns out she's a huge fan of the show!)
and she offered to let me use her magical library
to research today's episode!
This room actually contains all the knowledge in the universe!
She's got everything! Secrets of quantum physics!
The truth about Atlantis!
A list of all of my romantic failures... in alphabetical order.
There's just one problem.
Today's episode isn't about knowledge, it's about ignorance.
The study of ignorance
is a relatively new and cutting edge field in philosophy.
It actually has its own name, agnotology.
It comes from the ancient Greek words 'agnosis' and 'logos,'
which translate into English as "Martin from Year Nine."
Oh, sorry, that's romantic failures again.
Anyway, ignorance is a pretty broad topic.
It touches on all sorts of things like privacy,
deliberately keeping other people ignorant of something.
Justice, is justice blind?
Politics, how do we deal with things like misinformation
and public ignorance?
It also comes into play in mathematics,
when we think about uncertainty and probability.
Although we won't be talking about those today
because I only know three things about mathematics.
One, I'm not very good at it,
and B, I'm also not very good at it.
We'll also be looking at censorship,
including a real example that affected my life
in a major way
and which raises perhaps the most pressing question of all:
they say that people are afraid
of what they don't understand,
but what if some people don't want to understand?
You might be surprised to hear
that some philosophers thought a little bit of ignorance
can be a good thing.
John Rawls was a very well-respected
American philosopher of justice,
and he thought that society should be a cooperative system
based on rules.
But that prompts the question,
how do we decide on the rules?
Left to their own devices
people will come up with rules that benefit them
but screw over everybody else.
So how do we make sure they decide on good ones?
The solution, he said, was a "veil of ignorance."
A just society could be designed
by a committee of people
who do not know what position they will occupy
in that society.
So, we take a bunch of people and we erase their memories,
so they don't know anything about the world or themselves.
They're allowed to know what kind of human beings there are
and what sorts of things we need and enjoy,
but other than that, nothing.
And this group of people,
behind the veil of ignorance,
they will choose the rules.
They're allowed to know everything they need to do their jobs,
but absolutely nothing else about the world or humanity.
So it's kind of like going to Cambridge.
The idea is that if you don't know
whether you're gonna be the president
or an unemployed single mum,
you'll design a society
where unemployed single mums can do okay,
because once you come out from behind the veil of ignorance,
that might be you!
Of course, in real life
it's not possible to do this.
Rawls' thought experiment belongs to the kind of philosophy
we call ideal theory.
That's where we think about what might happen
under ideal circumstances,
and see if it tells us anything interesting
about the actual circumstances.
Rawls' thought experiment is an example
of how ignorance marks out the boundaries of a discussion.
We ignore, that is we remain ignorant of,
everything that is deemed not relevant.
So, knowledge and ignorance
are two sides of the same coin.
In Rawls' case,
the committee's ignorance of their self-interest
structures their knowledge of justice.
And there are real life justice systems
that work a little bit like this.
Juries might be told
to ignore certain evidence in a trial, for instance.
You might have racked up thousands of pounds
in library fines,
by checking out weird cat girl mangas,
and not returning them,
but you're on trial for the much lesser crime of murder,
so the jury will remain blessedly ignorant of that.
This is a key point in agnotology,
so it's worth making sure that you understand.
Ignorance isn't just the blank waiting to be filled in,
ignorance gives knowledge its structure.
If you're very clever,
and you've watched my last episode on ideology,
you might remember the idea that political ideologies
are defined just as much by what they don't say,
as what they do say -
the notes that aren't being played.
It's the same kind of thing.
"Ignorance is not a motionless state.
It is an active accomplishment
requiring ever-vigilant understanding
of what not to know."
- So here's something cool:
what if we take this idea
that ignorance gives knowledge its structure,
and we turn it back on John Rawls himself?
He's deliberately remaining ignorant
of the actual state of justice in the world,
to think about what things would be like
in ideal circumstances,
'cause that's what ideal theory does.
But what if ideal theory isn't the right way to do it?
The philosopher Charles Mills
criticised this move,
saying that remaining ignorant of society's problems
is hardly likely to generate good solutions,
and may in fact be why those problems continue!
If you put ignorance in,
you'll surely get ignorance out!
In particular, Mills highlights
that Rawls doesn't really mention racial injustice
all that much,
which is a pretty big oversight
for a philosopher of justice to make.
"A political philosophy thriving for 30 years,
that makes next to no mention
of the centrality of racial injustice,
to the basic structure of the United States,
and assumes instead
that it will be more theoretically appropriate
to start from the ideal theory assumption
that society is the product
of a mutually agreed on, non-exploitative enterprise
to divide benefits and burdens in an equitable way,
this is somehow going to illuminate
the distinctive moral problems
of a society based on exploitative white settlement?
One does not confront a history of racial domination
by ignoring it,
since to ignore it
is just to incorporate it through silence
into the conceptual apparatus,
whose genealogy will typically ensure
"hat it is structured
so as to take the white experience as normative."
- 'Normative' there, means 'giving values.'
It comes from the ancient Greek word 'nomos,'
which translates into English as "Jennifer from second year of university."
I'm sorry, this keeps happening.
When Mills and other philosophers
talk about taking the white experience as normative,
they mean that there are certain things
that white people remain ignorant of.
Mills talks about White Ignorance,
capital W, capital I.
And I bet that some people will hear that term
and they'll go,
'cause we're used to thinking of ignorance as a bad thing.
'Ignorant' is an insult, right?
Well, that's not necessarily how philosophers use it.
An example of White Ignorance might be, I don't know what it's like
to be racially profiled by the police, for instance.
That's not something I can know.
When we (white people) try to design "neutral, ideal" systems
that use ignorance to set the boundary of what's relevant,
we of course use our own ignorance to set that boundary.
So, the "neutral, ideal" system,
ends up reflecting the viewpoints of the white designers.
Ignorance in, ignorance out.
This is another key point in agnotology.
Ignorance isn't just a natural thing that happens,
it's created and reinforced by society.
So, what if instead of pretending that it's not there,
we try to figure out why people become ignorant
in the first place?
Philosophers sometimes distinguish between passive ignorance
and active ignorance.
Passive ignorance is when you just don't know something,
like I don't really know all that much about owls...
No offence.
There's just some things that I don't need to know.
Active ignorance is when you go out of your way
to make sure that you don't know something,
to ignore it because you need to not know.
And that's where things get interesting.
For instance,
I am not, at time of recording, a vegetarian.
Maybe I will be someday.
I have tried a few times,
and if I'm honest, it made me pretty miserable.
But I am aware, because I have vegetarian and vegan friends,
that if I were to really look
into what factory farming is like,
it's possible that would make me even more miserable
than not eating meat would.
And so I don't look into it.
In order to avoid being miserable,
I deliberately remain ignorant.
And most of the time,
I don't even think about that ignorance.
I'm deliberately ignorant of my deliberate ignorance!
This is an example of what philosopher Jennifer Foster
calls doxastic anxiety.
That's anxiety about forming beliefs.
I don't want to believe that eating meat is wrong,
so I remain deliberately ignorant
of anything that might change in my mind.
Comes from the ancient Greek word 'doxa,'
which translates into English as "Rebecca, from that one nightclub in Essex."
There's a subtle point here, which you might disagree with,
which is that believing or not believing something
can be a moral matter.
In other words, morality isn't just about your actions,
eating meat or not,
there are moral ways to think as well.
You can be doxastically cowardly,
or doxastically brave.
And you might be like, "Whoa,
That sounds like some thoughtcrime 1984 sh*t!
Surely I can believe whatever I like?
Surely it's my actions that count?"
And it is certainly a step away from John Rawls,
who thought that justice
was basically about the distribution of stuff
and opportunities.
But that depends on your view of morality.
If you think that morality
is just about the consequences of your actions,
then, yeah, okay.
But in recent years,
philosophers have started talking
about having the right intellectual virtues.
If I get to heaven someday,
and my old philosophy teacher's there,
and he says, "So, how do you think that went?"
I'll have to say, "Well, Mr. Baker,
I don't think I tried my best.
When it came to the question
of whether or not it's right to eat meat,
I dodged the question."
Is that, on its own,
grounds for not getting into heaven?
Is there a certain point at which denial itself
becomes morally wrong?
Well, maybe to answer that one
we could look at a real life example.
Riddle me that and riddle me this,
what kind of death is born in bliss?
Riddle me further if you're such a bright spark,
what kind of light keeps you in the dark?
Tobacco companies in the early 20th century
were living large,
but by the 1950s, the evidence was trickling in
that smoking is incredibly bad for you,
and big tobacco had a big problem.
How do we keep people ignorant or at least ignorant enough
that they'll keep smoking?
By the way, occasionally on this show,
I use smoking and fire as metaphors for fascism.
But in this episode
I am talking about literal tobacco companies.
And they came up with a very villainous solution.
You start off by saying,
"This evidence looks pretty serious,
so we are going to fund
a whole bunch of medical research
to figure out whether our product
really does cause lung cancer.
We are gonna pay for it out of our own pockets,
'cause that's how much we care."
And then you set up a study
looking into whether anything other than smoking
causes cancer,
like air pollution, or dust mites, or fatty foods,
it doesn't matter.
Does jazz cause cancer?
I dunno know.
Here's a million dollars to find out.
Your study obviously comes to the conclusion,
"We can't know for sure,"
because cancer does have complex causes,
and one scientific study is never gonna be 100%.
You don't actually have to come down either way,
so long as you conclude
by saying "These results demonstrate the need for further research."
And that is now your headline.
"More research needed into cigarettes cancer link, say scientists!"
Everybody who smokes
will read that and go, "Ah, a perfect excuse
to not think about whether or not this is killing me!
" will indulge my doxastic anxiety,
and remain in the dark.
Pass me a light!"
This is fully evil genius level sh*t.
Evil because let's not forget cigarettes are addictive
and they kill millions of people every year,
and genius because you don't have to be evil
to go along with it.
You can hire honest scientists
to investigate the legit question
of whether air pollution causes lung cancer.
You can hire honest editors and graphic designers
to print your findings in a nice glossy magazine
and distribute it.
You can rely on honest journalists to report both sides.
If you just paid people to lie
then they'd have to be as villainous as you.
But you don't even have to do that,
you just have to ask the right questions.
And you can use this playbook for anything.
Why stop at cigarettes?
Do it for opioid painkillers as well.
Do it for lead paint, asbestos, CFCs, beryllium.
Do it for political stuff.
Do it for gun crime, do it for debt build up
in the financial system, do it for police racism,
do it for terrorism studies,
do it for trans health care.
Just so long as the debate never stops,
and the matter is never settled.
As one cigarette company executive put it,
"Doubt is our product."
And if the balance
of the evidence does start to tip against you,
you've got one more trick up your sleeve.
Pretend like it's old news.
Like, "Pfft, yeah, everybody knows
that cigarettes cause lung cancer.
We certainly never denied that!
Our product is about rebellion and choice and freedom.
Everybody knows that it's addictive and that it kills you.
And if everybody knows it,
well there's no need to keep bringing it up."
Did the owners of cigarette companies
really believe that their product was safe?
Do they still?
Maybe some people are genuinely cynical
and don't care what happens to the rest of the world,
but I think that for a lot of us,
for certain topics, the doxastic anxiety is just too great.
We'll take any excuse to not think about it,
even if it means death.
Ignorance is bliss.
Riddle me square or riddle me round,
what kind of explosion makes no sound?
In 1942,
the United States had a problem.
They were working on a project,
a very special kind of project coordinated from Manhattan,
trying to build a very special kind of bomb.
But they weren't the only ones.
Across the Atlantic in Nazi Germany,
Hitler's scientists were racing to do the exact same thing,
so the American plans had to be kept secret.
As a matter of global security,
people needed to be ignorant.
When it comes to classified secrets, there's two kinds.
The first is stuff like "The troops will land at dawn."
It's very simple, so it's easy to leak,
but it's got a limited shelf life.
After dawn tomorrow,
it's not really gonna matter if everyone knows.
And it's also not really something
that you could figure out,
unless somebody tells you.
Compare that to the second type of secret.
Something like how to build a nuclear bomb.
Now, that is very complicated,
so it's harder to leak,
but it doesn't have a shelf life.
You've got to keep it secret forever.
And (this is the really dangerous part)
it's something that your enemies could in theory,
figure out on their own.
If they've got the resources and the scientists
and the labs and the time,
they could learn your secrets
by going the long way round.
And that means that if you're trying to keep the secret,
you also have to keep all the research you did to get there
secret as well.
The Americans didn't just classify the final design,
they had to classify all the little steps they did
to get to it.
Like how to enrich uranium,
and even basic principles of atomic physics
that they'd discovered,
'cause if you know that,
then you can start to join the dots.
The Nazis spent ages fiddling on with heavy water
trying to use it as a neutron moderator.
Meanwhile, the Americans were like.
"Actually, graphite works much better, but shh!"
The truth can be explosive, so keep it silent.
Keeping a lot of information secret like that
is very difficult, it's very expensive,
it's very inefficient,
and the more secrets the government keeps
the more heavy handed they have to be about protecting them.
And this is not a problem that has gone away.
Certain parts of the US and UK governments,
are right now toying with the idea
of removing public funding from schools and universities
that teach "divisive woke concepts."
The plan is that legislators want to keep people ignorant
of ideas that they believe are harmful or extreme.
That there are some ideas
that must just be ruled out as illegitimate,
not even worth hearing,
because hearing them might threaten the existence
of a system in which any ideas are expressible.
Now, that on its own isn't a particularly new concern.
Though of course the devil is in who chooses the ideas
that are too dangerous to hear,
and which ideas will they choose?
For our philosophical purposes today though,
there's two things we could note.
Firstly, "divisive woke concepts"
are much more like that second kind of secret,
'cause people could figure them out on their own.
Let's take communism for example,
since I assume that's gonna be on the list.
You could ban every copy of the Communist Manifesto,
you could ban everyone from reading Karl Marx,
but if you just, like, work in a pub
and have your eyes open,
you can see that society is divided
into different classes of people
based on their relationship to owning stuff,
and society is generally structured
around satisfying the desires of the owner class
rather than the working class.
Even if you wouldn't use that language,
the Marxism is already inside of you!
And you can't stop that.
Even if your grandkids are working on Mars,
in the Elon Musk salt mines in a hundred years,
with no Karl Marx anywhere on the planet,
they'll still be nothing stopping them going
"Hang on a minute...
Well, this is sh*t!"
And because they are like that second kind of secret,
if you want to keep people ignorant,
you can't just ban a few books,
you're gonna have to get seriously repressive.
Secondly, it's interesting that these legislators
claim the concepts themselves are divisive.
The civil rights organizer Kwame Ture
was often accused of being divisive.
And he said, "Well, no, I'm not.
I'm just drawing people's attention
to divisions that already exist.
Inequality and injustice are real.
What you're doing is just ordering us all to ignore them."
If you think back to what we learned earlier on,
about ignorance marking out the boundaries of a discussion,
we can see how a philosopher like Charles Mills
might interpret this,
not just as an attempt to keep the public ignorant,
but an attempt to build White Ignorance specifically
into the structure of society.
And if you want a real life example
of something like that happening
with very serious consequences
then I've got one for you.
Riddle me shameful or riddle me proud,
what is the number of silence out loud?
Riddle me mad or riddle me sane,
what kind of love dares not speak its name?
This is a real newspaper article.
It's from "The Telegraph" from a couple of weeks ago.
And as soon as I saw it,
I knew that I had to talk about it on the show,
'cause it's a perfect case study
of everything we've learned today.
It's by a British journalist called Victoria Lambert,
and it's titled "We need to talk about sex education."
And it's pretty standard #content, you know?
She's saying that the sex ed she got in school,
wasn't very good,
it didn't teach her about consent,
and parents should tell their kids about that.
Pretty standard mainstream feminist stuff.
And it's got some interviews
with other white, cisgender journalists,
who all agree.
What caught my eye
was two of those other interviews.
One with a guy called Alex Denny
who said, "LGBT sex ed was completely absent
from my all boys school."
And another with a guy called Jack Rear,
who is himself a gay man,
who also said he wasn't given any gay sex ed.
And what nobody mentions,
is that until relatively recently
LGBT sex ed in Britain was illegal.
In the UK, we used to have this thing called Section 28.
It was a law that was passed
by the Thatcher government in 1988,
which made it illegal for any local authority,
to "A, intentionally promote homosexuality,
or publish material with the intention
of promoting homosexuality,
and B, promote the teaching in any maintained school
of the acceptability of homosexuality
as a pretended family relationship."
So, first things first,
the text of the law is obviously explicitly homophobic.
It contains the central claim of homophobia,
which is that gay relationships
are not as good as straight ones.
Earlier on, we learned the concept of White Ignorance,
capital W, capital I.
Similarly, we might talk about Straight Ignorance,
or Cisgender Ignorance,
and those too, can be built into the law.
There were huge protests.
A group called the Lesbian Avengers
abseiled into the House of Lords to disrupt the session,
and they invaded the BBC news studio
during the live broadcast of the six o'clock news.
But the bill passed,
and this was the law until 2003.
When David Cameron became Prime Minister,
he apologised for Section 28
(despite having been a big supporter of it).
And to be fair, even if you like David Cameron,
you've got to admit it's a bit rich to be taking lessons on sexual ethics
from a man who f*cked a pig.
The law itself was, in parliamentary language,
f*kin' dog sh*t.
It was really vague and unclear,
but it had strong effects,
because it made people scared,
or it gave them an excuse
to do what they wanted to do anyway.
The idea was that you couldn't "promote" homosexuality
to children,
but in practice
that meant that we weren't allowed to know about it at all.
So, LGBT books were taken off the shelves
of local libraries;
some theatre companies were denied arts council funding
if they were too gay;
some films weren't allowed to be shown in schools
or in council venues...
It had a big silencing effect
that went way beyond
what the actual text of the law required,
even in private schools and even after it was repealed.
I remember when I was a kid
and my school taught us about sex, they said,
"Now then boys, when you go to bed with a woman
(or a man)
the penis is inserted into the vagina thusly. Now, go get 'em!"
And that was it.
That was what we were told.
And then 20 schoolkids were like, "Hau Thorn!
She's talking about youz ya f*kin' gaaaaaayyyyy!"
Like, that was it!
Section 28 was supported by a lot of British newspapers,
including "The Telegraph."
Section 28 is an example
of what philosopher Miranda Fricker
calls "hermeneutical injustice."
Hermeneutical means to "do with interpreting."
It comes from the ancient Greek word 'hermeneutikos,'
which translates into English as "Three of my previous girlfriends turned out to be lesbians and I still didn't realise I was trans."
A hermeneutical injustice
is when someone gets denied the knowledge they need
to understand and take control of their life.
And they are denied it
because they are a member of a certain group.
An example that Fricker gives
is a conservative lady who experienced postnatal depression
but who'd never been told that that was a thing.
That term wasn't always around.
If you experienced anxiety or depression
after having a child
people used to just say that you're a bad mother.
And this lady describes the time she heard that term used
at a feminist workshop.
"In that one 45 minute period,
I realised that what's had been blaming myself for,
and what my husband had blamed me for,
wasn't my personal deficiency.
It was a combination of physiological things,
and a real societal thing, isolation.
That realisation was one of those moments
that makes you a feminist forever."
Something that might be worth noting
is this woman describes that moment
not as being taught that she is a victim,
or "divisive woke grievance studies" or anything like that,
she describes it as liberating,
not divisive, but uniting.
Section 28 didn't mention transgender people at all,
but this was a time in which a lot of straight cis people
were ignorant of the fact that being gay and being trans
are two totally different things.
So, it put the kibosh on us as well.
My school just did not tell me
that being trans was a thing.
I did not knowingly meet another trans person
until I was already an adult.
I remember the first time I did.
I met this girl at my uni,
and I said, "Hey dude."
And she said, "I'm actually a woman, I'm a trans woman."
And I said, "What's that?"
And she told me, and I was like,
"Hau that's f*kin' gay!"
How might my life have been different,
if somebody had just told me when I was a kid?
That's years of my life I've wasted in ignorance
that I can never get back.
And you can go mad thinking about that sort of thing.
I made it in the end.
You've gotta play the hand you're dealt.
But I didn't know, and I didn't know that I needed to know.
I was ignorant.
Firstly, because that ignorance
was deliberately built into the structure
of the society I was born in.
And secondly, for a while,
I was too doxastically anxious
to really sit down and think about it.
And that is agnotology.
And maybe that's why Socrates was the wisest man in Athens,
because he said, "I know that I know nothing."