Star Wars Episode ViI: The Last Jedi"
was written and directed by Rian Johnson
and came out in 2017 to generally positive reviews.
A small but vocal minority of fans
expressed criticism of some of the plot points
and the film's portrayal of several of the main characters,
and some of that criticism shaded into
racist and sexist abuse of Kelly Marie Tran
who played the role of Rose Tico.
When Episode IX, "The Rise of Skywalker" came out in 2019,
it had a new director and writer in J.J. Abrams,
and although reviews were generally positive,
it wasn't as well received.
Criticism focused on the poorer storytelling
and attempts by Abrams to retcon some of the more
controversial things from the previous film,
which included relegating Rose to a very minor role,
and the perception among some was that
Abrams was trying too hard
to give the fans what they wanted.
In an interview with Radio.com, Rian Johnson said,
"I think approaching any creative process
"with making fandoms happy would be a mistake
"that would lead to probably the exact opposite result.
"Even my experience as a fan,
"you know, if I'm coming into something,
"even if it's something that I think I want,
"if I see exactly what I think I want on the screen,
"it's like, 'oh, okay.'
"It might make me smile and make me
"feel neutral about the thing
"and I won't really think about it afterwards,
"but that's not really going to satisfy me.
"I wanna be shocked, I wanna be surprised,
"I wanna be thrown off-guard,
"I wanna have the things recontextualized,
"I wanna be challenged as a fan
"when I sit down in the theatre."
This is Shakespeare's Globe,
one of the most famous theatres in the world.
Funnily enough, Shakespearean theatre
kind of had its own Star Wars moment a few years ago.
A woman named Emma Rice was made
artistic director here in 2016,
and then just a few months later
the board suddenly announced she was stepping down.
A theater critic called Richard Morrison
wrote an article in the Times that year titled,
"The Globe has Been a Success Story,
"and Emma Rice is Wrecking it."
Strong words, which he followed with the words,
"Perversity, Incongruity, and Disrespect."
What made Rice's show so controversial
is they used microphones and artificial lighting,
which previously at the Globe wasn't done.
It's an open-air theatre
and they like to keep things traditional.
Rice's predecessor, a guy named Dominic Dromgoole,
said, "We don't want directors
"who put their own signatures on the plays.
"When that happens the audience might go,
"'F**k off, I've paid money to see Shakespeare,
"'not somebody messing around with him.'"
I actually saw the Emma Rice production
of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" here,
and for what it's worth I really enjoyed it.
They genderbent some of the roles,
so had girls playing boys and vice versa,
which is pretty common in the rest of the industry.
It can help you realize things about the text
that maybe you didn't notice before.
But again, at the Globe?
That just wasn't done!
Shakespeare is often a lightning rod for issues like this
because it's Shakespeare!
It's undeniably some of the best
writing in the English language,
and a lot of people have a sense
that there's a correct way of doing it.
A lot of young actors when they start out,
even if they're not English, do the Shakespeare accent where they're like,
"Oh, I come not to praise Caesar but to bury him."
And some people get really angry
if Shakespeare isn't done the correct way.
There's another theatre critic called Dominic Cavendish
who wrote an article just a couple of weeks ago titled,
"The Woke Brigade are Close to Canceling Shakespeare,"
in which he says that if you choose to take offense,
there's a lot of stuff in Shakespeare
that might be triggering!
So the Woke Brigade (whoever they are?)
are probably gonna cut the whole thing,
and all these racially diverse casts and gender-bending
are threatening England's national poet!
Nobody tell Dominic Cavendish
that I once played Romeo across a trans woman as Juliet.
He'll freak out!
Cavendish and others seem to be assuming
that there's an authentic version of Shakespeare
that audiences are entitled to,
but this point can't really be grounded in history
because Shakespeare has changed so much.
400 years ago, women weren't allowed on stage at all.
People's accents and acting styles have changed.
Even the script might not be identical!
Shakespeare only gave each actor his part,
and it wasn't until after he died
that a bunch of his lads got together
and decided to compile the plays
from old bits of script and whatever they could remember.
But a stronger version of this argument might be
that it's not about historical accuracy,
it's about giving the people what they want.
And this is pretty common
in the rest of the acting industry.
The accents in "Downton Abbey"
aren't historically accurate,
but it is what a lot of people
expect folks of that era to sound like.
This accent, which they teach in British drama schools,
is called General American, and it's not accurate,
if you're from the United States you can probably tell,
but it is what a British person needs to hear
to understand that the character speaking is American.
And when it comes to the Globe, for better or worse,
this is the place to find """ Shakespeare."""
If you're in London, famous for having
some of the best theatre in the world,
and you wanna see some of the best
writing in the world for just five pounds,
this is probably where you're gonna come.
Audiences have expectations, which prompts the question
what should artists do about it?
Should they give the people what they want?
Or should art try and do something more?
What is art actually for?
Hey, welcome to the party!
Making this show is an interesting challenge.
Ostensibly the point is to teach people philosophy
and yet there is plenty about the channel
that isn't strictly educational.
A lot of my theatrics are here for entertainment
or because they fulfill some deep creative need in me,
but trying to find the balance
between the fun, the education, and the personal expression
is a tricky thing to make sense of.
And what do we do when we can't make sense of things?
We lie on the kitchen floor and cry!
No, of course not.
We read philosophy.
The philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche
was a pretty weird guy.
He lived in Germany at the end of the 19th century
when a lot of people were going off organized religion.
This guy called Charles Darwin had written a book
about how everybody's secretly monkeys or something,
and nobody was created by God at all.
Pfft, gutted!
And this came as a shock.
Some people thought it was a disaster,
some people thought it was the best news ever.
A lot of folks had to reevaluate their whole lives.
What is the point of the universe?
What are we even doing here?
Why are all the best TikToks filmed in bathrooms?
And Nietzsche said it's art that holds the answers.
That's what separates us from the animals.
Life isn't like a philosophical theory
with neat little premises and conclusions my friend.
Life is like art: meaningless, expensive, and mostly rubbish.
"Life must be seen as constantly and inevitably wicked,
"because life is something essentially amoral.
"Existence and the world appear justified
"only as an aesthetic phenomenon."
Nietzsche sets up a distinction between two opposing forces:
the Apollonian, named after Apollo,
god of light, logic, and reason,
and the Dionysian, named after the god
of wine, irrationality, chaos, and actors.
He says the history of art and culture
can be explained as the struggle between these two forces,
and that we've been pretty Apollonian for a while now
so it's time to bring back a little more Dionysus.
To give you a peek behind the curtain here,
this move by Nietzsche is what philosophers call
doing a Jordan Peterson.
You invent two categories seemingly out of nowhere,
you don't explain what they mean,
but you say everything in the world is these two things.
No, I will not be taking questions at this time!
He thought that the Ancient Greeks
knew how to balance the Apollonian and Dionysian
when they were writing their tragedies,
at least until philosophers came along
and ruined everything!
Ugh, Socrates! Such an Apollo!
The only art he thought measured up to the Ancient Greeks
in terms of getting the balance right
were the operas of Richard Wagner,
who you've definitely heard before
'cause he did "Ride of the Valkyries."
And the bridal march.
So Nietzsche thought that art and artists
held a really important place in society.
Art is the battleground between Apollo and Dionysus
that reflects the whole culture.
And he also thought it was great news
that a genius like Wagner had finally come along
to revive the Dionysian spirit.
It probably meant great things for German society
just around the corner, Reich?
I mean right?
And Nietzsche may have been madder than a box of frogs,
but if you've ever seen literally any art
you can probably understand why he would want artists
to try and do something for their audience.
This is maybe a controversial opinion,
especially on YouTube where the self-confessional monologue
is kind of an established format, but if your art
is all about expressing your deeply held emotions,
that doesn't necessarily mean that it's good art.
How many times have we seen sad movies or plays or songs
or especially slam poems by sad white guys
about, oh, I'm very sad and my pain is real
and there's a hidden darkness inside
and nobody understands it, but it's like Joker.
It's like society is the Joker,
but what I'm saying is like I'm like the Joker, though!
"What is more important to our culture than the Joker?!"
As one of my old drama school teachers used to say,
"Eckh. Is boring."
I mean, if you're gonna do a self-confessional YouTube monologue, at least put some costume changes in it!
The Ancient Greeks also thought that artists
have a higher calling, even though Plato said
most of them are rubbish at it.
In his book "The Republic," he tries to design
the perfect society, and he says
Democracy? Sounds good, doesn't work.
Terrible idea. Instead, we should be educating
our rulers from birth to do the job.
He thought that some theatre might
be able to educate audiences if it was about
very specific things,
but he wanted to ban almost all of it
'cause it's not like artists know anything
about teaching people good ideas.
Hello? That's what philosophers are for!
In another work of Plato's called "Laws,"
he talks about where a society should get its rules from,
and tellingly he includes a discussion
about the rules of theatre.
He says that in the old days,
there was a strict separation of genres.
Everybody knew what they were watching,
you sat there in silence, and you paid attention,
and at the end educated judges decided which play was best.
"The authority which determined
"and gave judgment, and punished the disobedient,
"was not expressed in a hiss,
"nor in the most unmusical shouts of the multitude,
"as in our days, nor in applause and clapping of hands.
"But the directors of public instruction insisted
"that the spectators should listen in silence till the end;
"and the boys and their tutors,
"and the multitude in general,
"were kept quiet by a hint from a stick."
But then the playwrights tore up the rules
and created all kinds of popular nonsense!
"Mingling lamentations with hymns,
"and paeans with dithyrambs;
"imitating the sounds of the flute on the lyre,
"and making one general confusion;
"ignorantly affirming that music has no truth,
"and, whether good or bad, can only
"be judged of rightly by the pleasure of the hearer.
"And by composing such licentious works,
"and adding to them words as licentious,
"they have inspired the multitude
"with lawlessness and boldness."
Plato thought that the theatRE
would cause audiences to feel all kinds of emotions
that they shouldn't be feeling.
But his student, Aristotle, said no,
better to feel those feelings and purge yourself of them
in a controlled environment like the theatRE.
The Greek word he uses is 'catharsis.'
Catharsis isn't just about getting the feelings out though.
If it was, then it would be pretty obvious
that Aristotle's theory doesn't work.
You can lie on the kitchen floor
and listen to as much tragic music as you like,
it won't stop you feeling sad.
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, whoa-oh ♪
The sadness goes on forever!
So another meaning of the Greek word is 'purification.'
This is maybe just a personal taste thing,
but I find when I'm really down
listening to sad music doesn't really help,
even though that is what I want to do.
If the music is really beautiful,
then maybe I can be like, oh, beauty is still possible
even in ugly times.
But what really helps me feel purified
is a good tragedy.
I've seen the musical "Hadestown" twice,
and I wept both times.
When Andre De Shields says,
"It's a tragedy but we sing it anyway,"
I'm like aw yes Andre, it hurts so good.
It's not just sadness, it's the fact
that it's contained within a story
that gives it a structure and gives
kind of a feeling of closure.
The Greeks may have started
a lot of Western theatrical traditions,
but the Romans took their own approach.
In Greek drama, all the killing and death and stuff
happens off-stage, but the Roman playwrights
brought it on, maybe because Roman audiences
didn't go to the theater out of a sense of civic duty
like the Greeks did, they wanted to be entertained. They were like,
"Eyyy, yo! It's Ancient Rome over here!"
"Somebody kill something, I'm falling asleep!
"Why would I go to the theatre
"when I can go down to the forum
"and see a naked slave writhing in human blood?"
I don't know why my Ancient Roman Italian American
just sounds like Bernie Sanders?
"It's not fair that 99% of 99% of Roman kids
have never even seen a crucifixion
while these billionaire senators and emperors
sit in their golden palaces having orgies!"
So, all throughout history there have been philosophers
and priests and authority figures
saying that artists should try to make the audience better.
But is there anybody out there with a different take?
Is there anybody out there who just wants to have some fun?
(people chattering) (traffic rumbling)
If you wanna know the value of art
and live theatre in particular,
then what better place to come than here?
New York City!
A few years ago I saw a play here off-Broadway
by a famous writer called David Mamet who has
a pretty interesting outlook when it comes to theatre
'cause he says it has absolutely nothing to do
with theme, ideas, or cultural value.
The job of theatre, the only job,
is to make sure the audience have a good time.
This idea is pretty well-reflected in Mamet's writing.
The play I saw here was called "Race."
It's about a wealthy white guy called Charles
who is accused of doing some pretty unspeakable things
to a young black woman.
The story takes place in the office of his lawyers
as they try to come up with a defense.
The case hinges on the fact that the old lady
in the hotel room next door
heard some noises and racial slurs being shouted.
And the defense they come up with
is that it was consensual, the girl was into it,
and she's lying to get Charles' money.
Yeah, Mamet specializes in writing
some pretty slimy characters.
And at the start, it looks like Charles is guilty as hell,
but then some details emerge that make it seem like
maybe that is what's actually happening,
and that's the kind of story Mamet does really well,
the kind that keeps you guessing.
When I first saw it, I was like 16, and it was electric.
I was so gripped.
But I actually did a monologue from it
at my drama school audition,
so it's a big part of why I became a professional actor.
But you might well wonder is it responsible
to write stories like that?
Some people might come out of that show thinking, "Yeah, the real victims in
society are wealthy white men!" which obviously isn't true.
So is that the sort of thing artists should bear in mind
when they create?
And Mamet at least says no.
My job is to entertain.
If you're sitting there, fuming about how problematic
the play is, planing your tweets for the interval,
then it's probably not a very good play.
Ditto if you're sitting there agreeing with it!
The whole point, he says, is to shortcut
the bit of your brain that intellectualizes stuff
and just write a dramatic story.
The only judge of whether the play is good
is the audience who pay to see it.
Do they laugh, do they cry, do they tell their friends?
Does the box office sell more tickets?
That is the free market
and that is the same thing as democracy!
Right?
Mamet has been working in theatre a long time,
and he says a lot of people wanna make high art
but the problem is rent.
Rent as in what you pay to a landlord,
not "Rent" the musical.
Real estate prices here in Manhattan
have gone up a huge amount in the last few decades,
so running a theatre is pretty expensive
and ticket prices have gone up.
When I first saw "Hadestown"
at the National Theatre in London, it cost me £15.
Then it transferred to Broadway
and it won a whole bunch of Tonys,
and now it's like $200 a ticket.
The target audience these days is wealthy tourists,
and Mamet says they just wanna be entertained,
they wanna see a spectacle that justifies the ticket price
so they can tell the folks back home that they saw it.
So forget about art, kid.
This is a business, the product is entertainment,
and that's just the way the world is.
And there's nothing that'll teach you that lesson
faster than becoming a professional actor.
Diary of a Workaday Actor!
Dear Diary, today I sent 400 emails
to acting agents seeking representation.
No-one has responded.
But I'm sure that eventually somebody will...
My friend Jessica from drama school
has an audition for a play
at the most famous theatre in London.
I'm sooooooo happy for her!
Dear Diary, somebody new came to work in the pub today:
he's a part time assistant to a famous agent.
He told me that all the big agents
and casting directors in London
work 60 hour weeks and can't actually
spare the time to see anyone new.
He didn't confirm it, but I suspect
the email address listed on their website
for submissions never actually gets read.
Jessica was weirdly quiet about her audition,
but she said she got the role.
Dear Diary, I'm applying for so many
of the jobs listed on casting websites
and going to auditions, but I can't help but notice
that the most prestigious theaters
and TV shows never advertise.
I always see the same actors in the big theatres;
I assume their auditions are invitation-only.
Oh Diary, it's so difficult not to be bitter or upset
when the odds are stacked against me.
But I always remember what they told me at drama school.
Never express any negativity or nobody will ever work with you!
Dear Diary, I had an audition today for a commercial;
they offered me £300 with no buyout fee.
I'm surprised a major brand is paying so little,
barely a week's rent, but I can't turn down the work.
I'll be wearing a giant banana costume and dancing around.
Not exactly the romantic leads I was promised,
but one step at a time I guess?
Jessica has started rehearsing for her show,
but when I ask her about it she doesn't wanna talk.
Dear Diary, Jessica broke down today
and told me what happened at rehearsal.
The director has been saying
some really inappropriate things to her,
but she doesn't want to speak up
because it's such a great opportunity.
He's in his 40s and she's my age.
And when he tried to touch her backstage she told him no.
Then, during the scene, he shouted at her
in front of the whole cast.
I know this job is making her sick with stress,
but she says if she takes any time off
they'll recast and she'll miss her chance.
They're only paying her minimum wage,
so when she's not in the theatre
she's always working in the pub.
I have to go now Diary, I have a new job as an Uber driver.
There's a line in "Hadestown"
where Mr. Hermes, the narrator, says that
"Orpheus was a poor boy, but he had a gift to give:
"he could make you see how the world could be..."
♪ In spite of the way that it is! ♪
Andre... <3
And maybe art is about that.
Not holding up the values of the perfect society,
but trying to point the way to a better one.
A lot of black American theatre over the last two centuries
has been about experiences that are alien
to white, middle-class theatregoers.
A lot of contemporary theatre around London right now
is about gentrification and poverty.
Through empathy and imagination,
these works could open our eyes to new possibilities
and maybe get us thinking about new ideas.
They might even contain what American writer
W. E. B. Du Bois called "Beauty to set the world right."
But if that's the case, then so what?
You know what else can open your eyes to new possibilities?
Drugs, an encyclopedia, depression.
You wouldn't think it was possible
for a man to lie on the floor of his kitchen
for an entire afternoon, completely unable to function,
but when I did it they gave me the Turner Prize.
♪ Oh, oh, oh, oh, whoa-oh ♪
So maybe new possibilities is part of it
but not the whole thing?
In her book "Duty Free Art," German filmmaker Hito Steyerl
talks about art as alternative currency,
something that has value but no central authority
to determine that value.
So instead, the value of a work of art
is in how it brings together a network of people
who understand and appreciate it in similar ways.
A good example of this would be the play "Bug"
by Toronto playwright Yolanda Bonnell,
which made headlines recently when the creative team said
they're only looking for reviews
from indigenous, black, and people of color.
Apparently they had a white reviewer in
who didn't really get what the show was about
and said some really ignorant things,
and they don't really wanna waste
everyone's time with that again.
They're deliberately pitching the show
not at the predominantly white mainstream theatre world
but are trying to create a kind of alternate art world.
It's the woke brigade! They've struck again!
Those 19th and 20th century playwrights
weren't just putting new ideas out there.
If they were, they'd have written manifestos, not plays.
They were workshopping their ideas with audiences,
identifying and responding to their needs
by creating art.
So it is about showcasing new ideas,
but it's also about bringing people together to share them.
If you've seen my video on Steven Bannon and populism,
(which uhhhhh I think some of you have)
then you'll remember that the public doesn't just exist.
Publics, plural, are constructed and so are audiences.
Depending on what you make,
you'll attract different sorts of people.
And here we need to talk about parasocial relationships.
Parasocial is a term from the '50s
used to describe the relationship
between audiences and certain kinds of performers,
a relationship that gives the illusion
of a real, face-to-face connection.
The phrase that's sometimes used
is intimacy at a distance.
Unlike a normal social relationship,
a parasocial relationship is one-sided,
controlled by the performer,
and doesn't have as much opportunity for mutual development.
There is a lot of research on them out there,
but the only reason anyone on YouTube knows the term
is thanks to the work of a creator called Shannon Strucci,
whose YouTube videos I really enjoy,
and who is therefore my best friend!
A lot of people have expressed concern
that parasocial relationships
could be deliberately, cynically fostered
for financial gain or even mass control.
Be honest, put your hand up if the way you voted
in your country's last election
was in any way influenced by your assessment
of the candidates' personal characters.
I will never meet any of these people,
it does not matter whether
they would be fun to go out drinking with!
What matters is their policies,
but, aw, he seems like such a nice guy!
Personally, I don't think parasocial relationships
are always bad, I think a little bit can be okay
if you're media-savvy.
I will happily stick on a podcast while I'm cooking,
and it feels like having a friend over,
which can be great if I'm too tired to see a real one.
A lot of YouTubers facilitate parasocial relationships
with their audience, 'cause if you have a channel
where you explain how to fix an engine,
people who need to fix their engine
will watch the bit they need and then go.
But if you can make a personal connection,
that's what keeps an audience coming back.
You know how every online recipe
has five paragraphs of useless crap
about, oh, I got this recipe from my grandmother,
and every time I make my organic vegan kombucha,
I think of gram-gram.
That's why that stuff is there!
My channel definitely does it.
A lot of my best received videos
have been intensely personal.
I do livestreams where I open fan mail,
I tell stories from my life.
I started out making pretty dry educational content,
and to be honest I got a little bored of it,
but now that I do... whatever this is,
my audience is a lot bigger, more international,
more enthusiastic, more gender diverse,
and if the fan mail is anything to go by,
the show has really helped a lot of people, which is great!
I've deliberately tried to create
an inclusive, welcoming place where people
can make a personal connection if they want to,
and it has really worked!
But sometimes it works a little too well...
Ladies, gentlemen, and distinguished nonbinary members
of the Royal Parasocial Society, welcome.
The vast, vast majority of audience members
in this parasocial environment are wonderful,
lovely, and very, very much appreciated.
But every ecosystem has its nasties,
and today I'd like to present
six unusual and fascinating species.
First the Advice Guys.
Advice Guys and the less common
but no less unusual Advice Girls
message me requesting very specific advice
on issues about which I cannot
possibly be expected to know anything.
Most notable was a guy who once emailed me
asking whether as a philosopher,
I thought it would be ethical for him
to leave his wife and move to Thailand with another woman.
I never did find out what happened to him after that.
If you're out there, good luck to you Thai Wife Guy.
Next, the Debate Champions.
An almost entirely male species,
this irritating but usually harmless fellow
demands that I spend my time and attention
curing him of his pedantry, basically,
which is usually a thankless and impossible task
and I don't recommend that anyone tries it.
Number three, the Therapy-Needers.
I've done a few videos about mental health,
and very often people write to me
saying that they've been helped by those videos
or even occasionally that those videos saved their life,
which is an awesome and humbling
thing for someone to tell you.
But some people will message me
their entire medical history,
often detailing their mental trauma at great length
in rambling, unstructured prose like a Ulysses of suffering.
And obviously some people need therapy and that is okay.
God knows I do!
But when I get messages like that,
I feel kinda weird 'cause their need is genuine
and it's sad that they're in pain,
but they've fallen too deep into a parasocial relationship
to the point where they are begging for help
from an unqualified stranger.
One of the consequences of cuts to public mental healthcare
is that people in pain will reach out
to anyone that they can reach.
Number four, a particularly dangerous species, the Stalkers.
And I've had a few.
The classic image of a stalker is a man in a trench coat
calling you at three a.m. to breathe heavily
because he wants power over you.
And I have had a couple a bit like that,
but to be honest the majority of my stalkers,
and certainly the most serious ones, are women
who fall too deep into that parasocial relationship
and think that I'm their friend.
So they don't even realize that it's weird
to send me hundreds of messages,
to volunteer to do jobs for me without being paid,
to ask detailed questions about my sex life,
to request pictures of my body,
or buy me clothes that I didn't ask for.
All of those are things that
a real friend or partner might do,
but again, these people do not know me.
They only know the scripted and edited version of me.
And it's pretty wild that that's just become
part of my life now.
When I do live events I have to request additional security
and it's bizarre how fast you adjust to that, honestly.
Number five, the Horny People.
And I've wanted to talk about this on the show for a while.
Obviously I do make stuff that is pretty horny sometimes
with the costumes and the jokes and the props.
It's actually a surprisingly good way
of getting people to engage with the educational stuff.
I get a lot of messages like,
"Oh, that was a really sexy costume.
"Also, here's what I think about
"the philosophy we were talking about."
Also, it is fun and I enjoy being desired.
So I do get a lot of horny messages from fans (and other creators!)
and a lot of very positive comments about my appearance,
the vast, vast majority of which is totally fine and okay.
But I do just wanna highlight some of the bits
that are less than okay.
First of all, I'm a man, I'm 6'1 and I'm pretty big.
That doesn't mean that I'm invincible,
and I have been assaulted before,
but if somebody's being horny towards me,
it's likely to be a situation that I can control.
And if I report a problem, I'm likely to be believed.
Unlike a lot of my YouTube and acting colleagues
who are women, if someone sexualizes me,
it doesn't usually come with a risk to my physical safety,
which is why I'm okay with the vast majority
of thirst that comes my way.
What does make me a little uncomfortable though
is when people get too deep into a parasocial relationship
and start asking me to abuse it.
I'm not talking about the people who comment,
"Philosophise me, Daddy!" as a joke.
I'm talking about the people who send me
explicit, lengthy fantasies
of the violent sexual things they want me to do to them.
I'm talking about people who out of nowhere
send me their dating profiles or their nude photos,
which, by the way, I delete without opening.
I'm talking about the people who pretend
not to know who I am on dating apps
so that they can meet me.
I'm talking about the people who turn up
to my live theatre shows in skimpy outfits,
get into the changing rooms, and solicit me for sex.
And I suspect that some guys will be sitting there thinking,
"Oh, wow, life must be really hard for you!
Oh, the tears of the Chad!
I wish I had your problems, buddy!"
And if that's you, then that's a little creepy
because you're essentially wishing
that you had more opportunities to take advantage of people.
These are consenting adults and they are pursuing me,
but they are making themselves vulnerable
on the basis of a relationship that is not real,
and I would not feel morally comfortable going there.
And to be honest, it makes it pretty hard to date.
It's hard enough to meet people,
but also I can't use dating apps because people just lie,
and then it becomes very, very obvious that they're lying,
and you know what it's like with a dating app.
You get a match and you get your hopes up,
and then it's just like ah, disappointment.
A lot of attention is rightly being paid at the moment
to male predators in all kinds of industries.
So honestly, I feel a little weird even talking about this
'cause it's sort of the inverse.
It's a man in a position of power
being uncomfortably pursued rather than doing the pursuing.
It doesn't really fit inside
but all of those thing have really happened to me
because one or two members of my audience
formed unhealthy expectations.
And speaking of unhealthy expectations,
the sixth and final species, the hate mobs.
There have been a few of these,
but one in recent memory stands out.
In autumn of last year, I voiced a line
in another YouTube video that a friend of mine made,
a real friend, somebody I actually know in real life,
and when the video came out I liked it,
so I shared it on Twitter.
About 48 hours later I started getting
death threats into my business inbox,
all mentioning my "endorsement"
of some guy I'd never heard of.
And I get death threats occasionally.
That's also just bizarrely a part of my life.
I had other things to focus on,
I figured somebody had a wire crossed somewhere,
so I just sort of tuned it out.
But they kept on coming.
I got death threats, I got encouragements of suicide,
I was accused of various crimes and perversions.
My personal life was speculated on,
my loved ones were insulted.
At one point my personal information
was just posted publicly.
Some people even went through my mental health videos
to find the specific words that would hurt me the most,
which... points for effort at least.
A lot of this was going on on Twitter.
I have been targeted in the past by three hate mobs:
Neo-Nazis, transphobes, and this one,
and this one was unquestionably the most venomous yet.
A lot of these messages were coming
from anonymous people with cartoon animal avatars, weirdly,
so for about a week straight I was in this bizarre situation
where I was just constantly being told to kill myself
by the cast of Disney's "Robin Hood!"
After a few days, I couldn't tune it out anymore
so I set aside some time to sit down, read through the lot,
and try and figure out where it was coming from.
And it turned out that when I voiced
the line in my friend's video,
she had also gotten someone else to voice a line in it,
somebody who has in the past, without going into details,
said some less than informed things about nonbinary people.
And a lot of folks were really pissed off
that I had endorsed his ideas
by appearing in the same video.
To make matters worse, when I shared it
I made a little joke that got misunderstood
and people thought I was making fun of the fact
that they were pissed off,
even though at the time I didn't even know about it.
So if you're keeping score at home,
I was getting death threats because
I voiced a line that I didn't write,
in a video that I didn't make,
with a man I'd never heard of,
who had in the past said some negative things
that had nothing to do with the content of that video.
And if that seems like kind of an unusual situation,
then you obviously haven't spent much time on Twitter.
Well done, that's a really healthy way to live your life.
Amongst the threats and abuse and classic Disney characters
were several sets of contradictory demands.
Some people demanded that I publicly denounce my friend,
some people demanded that I publicly denounce
the guy I'd never heard of,
some people demanded that I argue against
the ideas he'd expressed,
even though I have in the past already actually done that,
and all of these groups also demanded
that I didn't do what the others were saying.
And it grew and grew and grew to the point where
not only was is just really bad
for my mental health and my life,
but I also lost hundreds and hundreds of dollars
of support from my Patreon page,
the thing that I use to pay my rent and make this show.
It turns out that when people have
a parasocial relationship with you,
if they perceive you as doing something
that they perceive as a betrayal of that relationship,
it hurts them as seriously as a real betrayal
by a real friend would.
And just like you might do if a real friend betrayed you,
they got angry, some of them lashed out,
and they demanded that I do the work to fix the friendship,
even though again, I'm a stranger and I had nothing to do
with the decision to include this guy.
And this was one of those situations
where I had to ask myself,
do I give my audience what they want
or am I trying to do something more here?
And it turned out it was a pretty easy decision.
When I first made this channel,
I made a promise to myself that I would never
use it to single out any one person and make them feel bad,
and I hope I've mostly stuck to that.
When I do make videos about individuals
like Jordan Peterson or Ben Shapiro,
I try to focus on their ideas
rather than go after them personally.
And if I'm that cautious about strangers
with whom I have big disagreements,
I obviously wasn't gonna publicly turn on my friend,
somebody who I know and love.
At its peak, it wasn't just me and her
getting it in the neck,
but everybody who voiced a line in the video
and even one or two people who didn't.
So if I had said anything,
all of their inboxes would immediately get flooded
with another wave of crap from all the people
who wanted me to say something different
and all the people who just wanted
to punish my friend by isolating her
from the people who care about her,
a tactic that obviously wasn't gonna work.
And I'm not here to say, "Oh, boo hoo, everyone feel sorry for me!"
This is my job, I love what I do,
sometimes it makes me sick, that's why I have a therapist.
The point is that at the time I tried
to say as little as possible,
because making aggressive call-outs,
like a lot of people wanted me to,
constructs the kind of audience who expect that.
There are some right-wing YouTubers
who've made their careers for a long time
stirring up hate mobs,
and I think the attitude that some of them have is,
"Ah, it's just jokes, it's just memes.
"Why are you taking it so seriously?"
But whenever something like
the Christchurch shooting happens,
or another right-wing terror attack,
one or two of those YouTubers always go,
"Oh god, I've got blood on my hands,"
and they start messaging me in secret.
You would be surprised which big-name, right-wing YouTubers
contact me and others behind the scenes
trying to get out of the game,
only to realize that their careers
and their families' livelihoods
now depend on them feeding the mob
another piece of meat every week.
And I really do not wanna end up like that.
I think something similar might've happened
with "Star Wars" and maybe even Shakespeare's Globe.
They constructed really passionate audiences
who cared about the brand and who bought tickets,
but who also had strong expectations
about how the art should be,
and that's a double-edged sword.
On the one hand, it's great to have a keen audience.
On the other, it can be hard to break out
and do something new and creative
if you've cultivated a die-hard fandom,
especially if they have strong expectations
about who else should be included in the fandom.
So the point of cataloging all these bizarre interactions
is that as a creator, I don't feel I can go,
"Eyy, it's all just for entertainment!"
There's no doubt that the stuff I make
shapes my audience and their responses,
even though the ones who go too far
bear the blame for their own actions.
For what it's worth, I don't think that my art could ever
live up to the standard that Plato sets.
I'd never be so arrogant as to assume
that I know what the perfect society should be.
A lot of journalists and audience members though
seem to think that what I and my YouTube friends make
has the potential to make the world a better place,
especially when it comes to de-radicalizing people
away from extremist, right-wing ideas.
Whenever I do live events, I get people coming up to me,
saying, "Your videos helped make me a better person."
I especially get a lot of young guys coming up to me,
saying, "You showed me a model of masculinity
"which I felt was wholesome and not toxic."
I did a live event last week,
and three separate people came up to me and said that,
and I just kinda smiled and looked down
because that's kind of a big thing to tell someone!
I am making things that can just be viewed for entertainment
and I think that's okay.
But I hope that they also reward the people
who treat them as art as alternative currency,
and I hope that I will always bear in mind
the enormous responsibility
that having this platform and being an artist can bring.
♪ G-G-Getting dressed and flexing in recession ♪
♪ Best in bullshit get-ups ♪
♪ Gawkish walkers smorgasbord of tawdry-gawdry Argos set-ups ♪
♪ Fetch the Etch A Sketch and get encrusted ♪
♪ That's the shit I dream up ♪
♪ Fix that bitch with 66 Swarovskis that I just picked up ♪
♪ Gold teeth? All right ♪
♪ Fair play, that does look kinda dope ♪
♪ Bond villain crossed with Sunday morning ♪
♪ Gold-adorning pope ♪
♪ The CEO of Cash4Gold monitors your output ♪
♪ Where the fuck you buy a gold-plated fat Albert? ♪
♪ Distract detractors from your skills ♪
♪ They may be questionable! It's all ostensible! ♪
♪ When what you spit's respectable, that shit's dispensable! ♪
♪ And all you really need hanging is tits or testicles! ♪
♪ I support witty, gritty, and intricately performed raps ♪
♪ You look pretty, but the gist of your bars are shitty ♪
DUN DUN DUN DUN
♪ So shut the fuck up, heh ♪
Every Renaissance Italian deserves
access to marble statuary where you can see
the finger indentations carved in the naked lady's ass.
And if you wanna join our movement,
go to BerniniForPresident.com

