- Thanks to Stereo, the free live broadcast app,
for sponsoring this video.
Before we dig into the video itself
I have kind of a fun announcement.
I'm gonna be using Stereo
to host a live after show of this video
tomorrow at 7:00 PM, UK time.
This is something a bit new.
It's the first time I've done
any kind of post-mortem after show for any of my videos.
And it's not gonna be just me talking at to you.
A lot of the topics that I'm going to cover in this video
are things that a lot of people have
their own thoughts about
that I would really be interested to hear.
And one of the exciting things about Stereo
is that you or anyone listening can record a voice memo
and essentially like call into the show
with your own thoughts or questions like as we're live.
So yeah, tomorrow's show is gonna be
a kind of fun interactive conversation between all of us
about like anything that's covered in this video
or the process of making it.
Whether that's about the feminist horror genre,
internalised misogyny,
what you thought about Jennifer's body the movie
or how Megan Fox has been treated over the years.
Basically, I would just love to hear your thoughts.
I've hosted a few other live shows on Stereo already
including one where I give anyone who like messages in
a personalised recommendation
of like the next thing that they should watch.
And also a debate about
what is the best gay movie of all time?
Actually, two of my favourite,
possibly my two favourite queer lady films
are both historical.
The South Korean film called the Handmaiden.
- [Dan] Oh I haven't seen it,
that's been on my list for the longest time.
- Oh my God, Dan,
it is genuinely one of the best films I've ever seen.
And it is the story of a girl
who comes from a family of criminals
and this con man basically comes to her house and says
"I have kind of scoped out this woman.
"She has a load of money coming to her.
"The money will then be given to her husband.
"And so my plan,"
This guy says, "Is to marry her, to take her money
"and then to commit her to an insane asylum
"so that I can keep all the cash.
"And what I want you to do is to become her handmaiden
"to persuade her that I am like the suitor
"that she should fall for."
And it is just delicious in every single way.
If you miss those, then you can listen back to any of them
on the Stereo app, they're all there for you already.
So yeah, if you think you might want to listen or join in
or even host a show yourself
then I'm gonna leave a link to download Stereo
in the description and hopefully see you there tomorrow.
"When facing the press, Megan is the queen
"of talking trailer trash and posing like a porn star.
"And yes, we've had the unbearable time
"of watching her try to act on set.
"And yes, it's very cringe-able.
"So maybe being a porn star in the future
"might be a good career option, but make-up beware,
"she has a paragraph tattoo on her backside
"probably due to her rotten childhood,
"easily another 45 minutes in the chair."
You'd be forgiven for thinking that these words
written about actress, Megan Fox
are the work of some kind of like unhinged troll
ranting on the internet, but they're not.
The paragraph I just read is from a letter
that totals over a thousand words
and is signed simply loyal transformers crew.
A letter that was hosted on transformer director,
Michael Bay's website.
When we talk about why the movie Jennifer's body flopped,
it quickly becomes apparent that it's far more complex
than just a film not working out.
In fact, it's a story that from every angle
captures the truth of the rampant misogyny in Hollywood.
The story around Jennifer's body
and the treatment of Megan Fox at the time
involved personal attacks potential career blacklisting
and industry-wide sexism.
Later in this video we're gonna come back to this letter,
why it was written, and the impact that it had.
But first let's look at the context
around the release of Jennifer's body.
Settle in gang because this is gonna be a messed up ride.
Internalised misogyny.
So that letter is a pretty clear example of sexism.
Like it's not explicitly stated
that the writers of the letter were men,
but I feel like that's the impression
that we're all getting here.
The content of the letter presents a very specific
kind of sexism that's perpetuated by men,
but in order for us to understand
everything else that happened
and why the public reacted to Megan Fox
in the way that they did
we also need to talk about internalised misogyny.
Internalised misogyny is pretty much what it sounds like.
Sexism and misogyny are so ingrained within our society
that oftentimes women will essentially absorb them
into the way that they think about and treat themselves
and other women and girls.
It might cause you to judge or dislike yourself,
the women around you, or just the idea of women in general.
Sometimes it can be difficult to separate your real feelings
from the things you've been told, even about your own body.
Like, do you really want to shave your legs for yourself?
Or because you've been told you have to?
Some women will turn that internalised misogyny
on other women who don't fit
the narrow standard of acceptability.
They don't see something like growing leg hair
as a harmless individual choice
but something that other women can and should be judged
for not doing.
They buy into the idea that having leg hair
means that women are inherently lazy
unhygienic, unattractive
or one of those filthy man eating lesbians.
Not because it's true, but because society's idea
of what a good woman is,
is a woman with like baby smooth legs.
Maintaining like a base level attractiveness
to the male gaze is an inherent part of this.
And the most messed up thing is, it goes beyond this.
It isn't enough to just not be unattractive.
You also can be seen to care too much
about the way you look, because if you care too much
you must be flaunting it, asking for it.
Somehow under the punishing gaze
of external and internal sexism
you have to balance your weight across this line
between the equally damning stated of frigid lesbian
and dumb whore.
In a world where being valuable to men
is an ideal to be strived towards,
is it any wonder that some women end up seeing other women
as competitors to be judged?
When we look back at the way that Megan Fox
and other women like her were treated
in the era around the release of Jennifer's body
in the two thousands,
they were very clearly marketed as sexual commodities
and then had the same system that cast them in that role
encourage other women to condemn them for it.
This idea of internalised misogyny is nothing new.
It didn't just like pop up
in the era of leave Brittany alone.
But the advent of popularisation of the internet
exploded this already toxic trend
with gossip blogs and easy access to paparazzi photos,
anonymous tips and forums that validated
this kind of hatred.
Online spaces can be filled with jealousy and derision,
particularly towards women in the spotlight,
but internalised misogyny isn't just a jealousy thing.
If you're taught being a woman is lesser,
that women are weak,
then things associated with women,
the colour pink for example, become the enemy,
rather than the system itself.
So many of us will have gone through the,
I hate the colour pink phase, not for any reason
tied solely to pure colour preference,
but because of what the colour had come to mean to us.
In the throws of internalised misogyny,
you believe the lies that society says about people like you
except you don't see them as lies.
Instead, you see yourself as the exception
for not being what they say.
We can see this play out across this period
in the, not like other girls mentality.
Pieces of pop culture, like Pink's song, Stupid Girls,
the classic bimbo to bookworm meme.
And it's a phenomenon that Fox herself is well aware of.
Megan Fox and Transformers.
So in the throws of this era we have Megan Fox
this actress who is absolutely skyrocketed to fame
for her role as Mikaela Banes in the 2007 movie,
Transformers.
Almost immediately she went from relatively unknown
to being plastered on the front of fashion
and gossip magazines.
Even being awarded the title of sexiest woman in the world
shortly after the movie premiered.
Chris Lee of the Los Angeles times called Fox
"The first bonafide sex symbol of the 21st century."
And people seemed to agree.
Although this was Fox's breakout role, it wasn't her first.
Gaining increasing notoriety is her role at the age of 15
in Bad Boys two.
She was dressed in a stars and stripes bikini and heels
and ended up being asked to dance under a waterfall
because she was too young to be seated at the bar
with a drink in the scene.
Bad Boys two like transformers was directed by Michael Bay.
Yeah, the Michael Bay from the letter
at the beginning of this video
and FYI we're gonna see a lot more of him
later in this story, when we look at how exactly
that letter came to be written.
The role of the glamorous sexy starlet
was not one that Fox was used to.
Speaking of her childhood in rural Tennessee,
she said, "My dad used to hunt ducks
"and my mom would put them in the pot.
"We lived really modestly, we had very little money."
A few years after these public accolades started to come in
all based on her looks,
she did this interview with cosmopolitan
where she said that, although she was confident
in her personality, she's completely hysterically insecure,
self-loathing introverted and neurotic
about the way she looks physically.
But for better or worse, the role had been created for her.
She either embraced and exploited it or rejected it
and risk losing everything.
At first Fox chose to exploit it.
Knowing the whole time that what she was doing
was an artifice.
She cultivated this public persona.
This Raven haired vixen, tattooed and ballsy,
aware of her sexuality,
outrageous in everything she said in interviews.
When in reality, she'd only ever slept with two men
both of them long term boyfriends
and to everyone who knew her well
she was kind of known as a bit of a homebody.
In this period she was never really seen
like falling out of clubs or partying hard.
She was talking the talk but not walking the walk
as it were.
But juggling these private and public versions of herself
seemed to be taking a toll.
At the time when she was promoting Jennifer's body
her interviews were getting increasingly more open
and frank and honestly kind of disturbing.
"Those are literally his directions sometimes, be hot.
"I've had that note on set before.
"Mike, I'll say, who am I talking to?
"Where am I supposed to be looking at?
"And he responds, just be sexy.
"I get mad when people talk to me like that, then again
"audiences don't come to Transformers to see us.
"They're there to see the devastation and the explosions.
"It's been a crazy year.
"I've learned that being a celebrity is
"like being a sacrificial lamb.
"At some point
"no matter how high the pedestal they put you on
"they're going to tear you down.
"And I created a character as an offering for the sacrifice.
"I'm not willing to give my true self up.
"It's a Testament to my real personality
"that I would go so far as to make up another personality
"to give to the world.
"The reality is I'm hidden amongst all the insanity.
"Nobody can find me."
To me all of this culminated around Jennifer's body in 2009
and the fallout that came after it
I think it's important to look at the way that the treatment
of Megan Fox as a sexualized young actress
played into the initial failure of the film
because the public perception of Megan Fox
that was created by these movie studios and publicists
defined the way that Jennifer's body was sold to the public.
It was all based around the idea
that Fox's inherent and only role in movies and in life
was to be a sexual object.
Jennifer's body director Karyn Kusama
has actually talked about the fact
that some of the initial ideas
for the marketing of the movie, were to have Megan Fox
host an amateur porn site to promote the film.
Like that's the level of sexualization
that we're dealing with here.
And the most ridiculous thing about it is
that that movie that they were trying to sell,
this sexy movie, was not what Jennifer's body was.
Reviews at the time said things like
"If you're in search for a way to ogle Megan Fox's body,
"there are a lot better ways of doing it
"than subjecting yourself to this."
And, "Jennifer's body is not funny, nor is it sexy.
"The girls keep their clothes on, nor is it scary.
"It's all just special effects."
So all encompassing was this idea
that Megan Fox was just this inherently sexual actor
who in any film she was going to be in,
was going to turn it into some kind of softcore porn film
that it kind of ended up reflecting onto her co-stars
including Amanda Seyfried,
with one review saying, "Real life Seyfried
"is a luscious bit of blonde honeycomb
"but in the world of Jennifer's body
"she magically turns into a geek with a simple application
"of the sexy librarian costume from the prop department."
So for this next section about gender marketing
in Jennifer's body, I'm gonna pass over to,
I guess our like advertising correspondent for this video,
Shonalika, who is an amazing video essayist on YouTube.
I'm going to link their channel below.
They very kindly agreed to collaborate on this video.
So yeah, they're gonna take you through
some more messed up things that happened
in the context of this movie.
Marketing.
- Thanks Rowan.
Jennifer's body suffered from a serious marketing problem.
The posters, in particular this one,
don't really convey anything about the film
other than that it has sexy Megan Fox in it.
The marketing suggested that the film was devoid
of much other than sex appeal
and therefore it was mostly men who want and expect
that kind of content from Megan Fox who went to see it.
What they got was a drama focused on a toxic relationship
between two teenagers, with five seconds of lesbianism
one gratuitous shot of Jennifer
and several not quite sex scenes
ending with Jennifer disembowelling several boys
and eating their entrails.
Now, personally, I love that a bunch of horny men
were slapped in the face like that.
A women looking sexy on a poster
shouldn't mean she has to do anything sexy in the film.
We certainly don't expect the same of male actors.
However, it didn't do the film itself any favours.
The audience were mad, but should they have been?
The advertising was misleading, sure.
But the film wasn't devoid of valuable content.
As a matter of fact, it explored far more interesting themes
than just sexy Megan Fox.
Toxic relationships, adolescent sexuality,
trauma, and sexual abuse.
So why couldn't the male audience see past the gender
of its main character and appreciate those aspects
of the film in the same way that female viewers
do for male characters all the time?
The concept that men and women can or should
only engage with media made specifically for them
is of course, gender essentialist nonsense.
However, the notion remains prevalent in our society
and our subconscious.
It informs how advertisers tried to sell us products
and how we respond to those products.
The failure of Jennifer's body at the box office is in part
due to this idea that boys and girls need different media.
For example, boys don't enjoy love stories
and girls don't like horror.
The latter being a large part of the reason presumably
as to why they decided not to market the film
towards teenage girls.
Roger Ebert's review of the film describes it as
Twilight for boys, which is a massive mis-characterization.
There are Twilight vibes in the film sure,
but it's far from a gender swapped version
for a male audience.
If anything, it's still Twilight for girls.
Twilight for gay girls.
And that is exactly what upset the male audience so much.
Deep down they knew it wasn't Twilight for boys.
That was the problem.
It wasn't for them, but let's not simplify the issue.
It's bigger and deeper than that
because the issues of gender based marketing
aren't split neatly down the middle.
Men weren't upset because it wasn't a boy movie.
They were upset because it was a girl movie.
Let me explain.
While there are some movies marketed specifically at boys,
Transformers, for example, in media in general
thanks to the patriarchy males perspectives.
Male perspectives are the default
unless otherwise specified.
The plot of a neutral movie will be seen as
suddenly focusing on a female perspective
if its main character happens to be a woman.
A fantastic example of somebody acknowledging
and addressing this can be found in the making of
BoJack horseman.
The show's creator Raphael Bob-Waksberg
would come up with concepts for background gags,
for example, a business dog slobbering on a business person.
When realising these designs, head designer Lisa Hanawalt
would sometimes randomly make characters, people of colour
or women, a decision which initially
made Bob-Waksberg uncomfortable.
He reflects, "For the dog joke,
"you have the thing where the tongue slobbers
"all over the business person.
"But if you also have the thing where both
"of them are ladies
"the audience will think, why are those characters female?
"Is that part of the joke?
"The underlying assumption is that the default mode
"for any character is male.
"So to make the characters female is an additional detail
"on top of that.
"In case I'm not being a hundred percent clear,
"this thinking is stupid and wrong and self perpetuating,
"unless you actively work against it.
Thanks to the cis het white male default,
we have horror movies and we have girl movies.
The two cannot naturally crossover
in the same way that whiteness, maleness and so on
can naturally cross over into just about anything.
In other words, most men are used to being pandered to
and centred unless clearly otherwise stated
so they can then catalogue that item as for girls
and avoid it if they want to.
Most men, especially cis het white ones,
probably haven't watched and would not be interested
in watching a film aimed at teenage girls,
even though they may be interested in watching a film
about mountain climbers, despite most men
not being mountain climbers.
We are asked to sympathise with characters
who have different perspectives to our own all the time,
that's the whole point of stories.
Yet gender remains the differential that too many men
seem unwilling to cross.
So when men did watch Jennifer's body
and it didn't centre their feelings,
they judged it a failure when really
the failure was their own
- Queer readings.
One of the key elements of the marketing of the movie
that I think really hammered home the way that the marketers
we're thinking about this like assumed target audience
was the kiss between Jennifer and Needy,
which many people remember as like the foundation upon which
this movie was pushed to young audiences of teenage boys.
In reality the kiss lasts for like a minute total
in the whole film
and it's neither like an extended steamy sex scene
or like an actual canonical confirmation
of a queer relationship in the movie.
Instead, it's a complicated and charged moment
in the relationship between these two girls
that plays on both the intensity
of teenage female friendships
and the sexual manipulation methods of demon, Jennifer.
Writer Diablo Cody thought of it as a way
to show the relationship was something more intense
than just friendship.
"At the time I just thought,
"I want people to really understand how badly
"Needy wants Jennifer.
"There's a sexual tension between them.
"It's not just a friendship."
But she's also talked about how at the time of its release
because of the way the kiss was used in the marketing
it would seem by a lot of people who nowadays
would look at Jennifer's body as a really interesting movie
to do a queer reading of, as something that was purely
put in to titillate male viewers.
Something that was like distinct in and of itself
that didn't necessarily tie into the rest of the movie.
But I think I agree with Cody's initial reasoning
behind putting in the kiss.
I personally think it doesn't take a lot to dig into
a queer reading of the characters of Jennifer and Needy
within the movie.
But I think because of the foregrounding of that kiss scene
and the idea of it being like promoted as a
very sexual movie,
it's easy to see how that could be lost
because I think a lot of that queer reading
is not actually about sex at all
but about this complicated emotional relationship
between the two girls.
Their relationship is not trying to be a kind of
positive queer piece of representation, it's really toxic.
When Jennifer goes off to chip as a victim
it's still wrapped up in her obsession with Needy.
Asking him to say, "I'm better than Needy."
She constantly makes these comments like
"We can play boyfriend, girlfriend, like we used to."
And, "I always stay in your bed during sleepovers."
And, "I go both ways."
But it's never clear whether this is a genuine assertion
of bisexuality or a tongue in cheek reference
for the audience.
I think one of the reasons why Jennifer's body
has had such a kind of Renaissance in queer viewership
more recently is because we kind of feel ready for it now.
At the time, what we might've been looking for
was something that was less complicated, less toxic,
less, you know, dark.
With a lot of elements of representation
what will normally happen is you have a marginalised group
which is portrayed like actively badly initially
and then you get something which is a little bit more
like virtue signalling it's, you know,
that character is probably always gonna be really good
and just and moral,
because you're afraid of doing anything
that would shine a bad light on them.
And then you get to the point where you have enough
of this positive representation
that you can start to be a little bit more complicated
in the way that you portray them.
And Jennifer's body kind of feels like a movie
that was made too early.
Like if it had come out now, this complicated, messy,
emotional relationship between these two girls
might have been seen for what it really was
rather than an attempt at drawing in male viewers.
So that's how the movie was sold.
Let's talk about what was going on in the movie itself.
What the movie is about, because when we do,
I think this whole thing becomes a lot more awful.
A metaphor for trauma.
So I talked about this in my blind manner video
but it's no secret to say that horror and metaphor
are old friends.
All the way back to bedtime stories
and old myths meant to warn of the world's dangers.
We've used tales of supernatural or fictionalised monsters
to talk about real fears around us.
And to me Jennifer's body at its heart
is a story talking about sexual abuse and trauma.
It's a story of a teen girl who ends up drunk and alone
in a van with a group of strange men
who take advantage of her for their own power
and satisfaction and who is left traumatised by the ordeal.
The movie replaces an actual sexual assault scene
with the scene of a ritualistic sacrifice
kind of allowing the two to blend together.
In the van on the way to the ritual
Jennifer herself assumes that is what's going to happen
asking, "Where are we going?
"Are you guys rapists?"
Then when they don't answer or deny it,
she begins insisting.
I'm a Virgin, I don't know how,
you should find someone who does know how.
She's going through these desperate words of reasoning
trying anything she can to get them to stop, to let her go
and it's so painful as an audience
because we saw what was going on before she did.
We knew as she was getting in that van
what was going to happen
and watching this kind of drunken haze turn
to this horrified anticipation
just adds to our sense of horror.
It's got this kind of tone of inevitability to it.
The story that we know is based as much in truth and reality
as it is in this exaggerated cultist horror.
The ritual itself is a disorienting tonal shift
for the audience who have grown used to
the quippy teen dialogue and comedic elements of the movie
so far.
It's sudden, and with an edge of what might've been humour
as the boy starts singing
but which is undermined by the brutality of it.
The song serves as a reminder of how unaffected they are
while plunging the knife into her body
seeing it as a bonding experience between boys.
By replacing it with a ritualistic blood sacrifice
the movie manages to convey the horror
of a sexual assault scene
without fetishizing or even showing an actual assault.
So if the ritual itself is a stand-in for assault,
what of Jennifer's actions afterwards?
Her immediate thought is to get to Needy
leading to the scene in the kitchen
where she decimates a rotisserie chicken
and then vomits black tar all over the linoleum.
The scene is so painful because so many of us,
too many of us, have been the person that a friend goes to
after something awful like this has happened to them.
Feeling scared and helpless as you watch your friend in pain
like Needy does, watching them figuratively
and sometimes literally spilling their guts to you.
Even the moment when Needy goes to the phone to call someone
the cops maybe and Jennifer stops her.
It all feels so terrifyingly familiar to me
and I imagine some of you too.
There's this real understanding from writer Diablo Cody,
about the reaction of girls in this situation
in a way that feels organic and truthful
rather than didactic.
And then Jennifer leaves and begins her killing spree.
The rape revenge fantasy genre.
The rape revenge fantasy is an established genre of cinema
that was popularised in the 1970s.
It can overlap with other genres
including like thriller, crime, even comedy.
Some of the most famous examples include
I spit on your grave, Kill Bill, Teeth, Revenge
and there are also movies that I wouldn't class
as being in this genre specifically
but have an element of it in a wider story.
Like the girl with the dragon tattoo or mad max fury road.
Here's how the storyline typically goes.
Act one, a woman is raped, tortured and left for dead.
Act two, the woman survives and takes an angry sense
of strength to what it's done to her.
And act three, the woman is empowered
and takes revenge by killing and sometimes torturing
all of her rapists.
Generally the idea is that it's the woman
who has been raped herself who is enacting revenge,
not anyone who is around her.
Although I think it's worth noting that this genre,
like many others, has changed, developed, expanded
in recent years.
The most recent movie that I've seen,
that kind of deals with this is promising young woman
that I actually really liked
and I think it's an interesting indicator
of the different ways that this genre might go
in the future.
It's worth noting that traditionally these movies are seen
as kind of like empowered women movies
but they are also most often directed and written by men.
Like all the movies in the genre that I just referenced,
only two of them revenge and then promising young woman
were written or directed by a woman.
And to be clear, I'm not saying that men
can't write and direct these movies.
Like let's be real,
they're gonna do what they want either way.
But I think Jennifer's Body is a really interesting example
of what happens when you allow a woman to play around
and toy with this genre.
But as we pointed out earlier, a kind of campy
but complicated movie about the way a girl
deals with trauma was not necessarily how this movie
was marketed to the masses,
which is why it's so interesting to me that Jennifer's Body
has had that kind of post me too renaissance
in the modern era.
The me too era Renaissance.
Honestly, I think that if Diablo Cody
had written Jennifer's body in 2019 rather than 2009
people would be saying that it was like too obvious.
It was too on the nose.
Like really, you're actually gonna write a movie
about a girl who is pseudo sacrificed
for the advancement of men's artistic careers.
It just feels so obviously parallel
to these kind of abusive producers and directors
and casting couches that we've heard so much about
from the me too movement in Hollywood.
Successful men taking advantage of young actresses
in order to further their own careers.
But here's the thing to remember.
Cody, didn't write this in 2019
and she didn't have some kind of crystal ball
to look into the future of, you know, the reckoning to come
because this problem didn't start in 2019
and it isn't relegated to the elite of Hollywood.
And I think the whole thing takes on this extra layer
of tragedy when you hear Megan Fox talk about
her own experiences prior to the me too movement.
In an interview with entertainment tonight, she said,
"I was sort of in front of the me too movement
"before the me too movement happened.
"I was speaking out and saying,
"Hey these things are happening to me and they're not okay.
"And everyone was like, fuck you, we don't care.
"You deserve it because of how you talk,
"because of how you look, how you dress
"because of the jokes you make."
Fox has described Jennifer's body as
"My favourite project that I've ever done.
"Just magical at that moment in my life,
"it was a perfect fit."
And it's not hard to imagine why,
because of what she was going through with Michael Bay
at the time.
Breaking down the perfect victim.
So to me, Jennifer's Body feels quite different
to a lot of other movies within this particular genre
and I think the reason why is the way it deals
with Jennifer herself, she isn't this empowered badass
made tough and world wise by her trauma,
but nor is she this innocent girl who did everything right
and was targeted by a stroke of bad luck and injustice.
Cody specifically doesn't moralise the choices of victims
in their trauma.
Instead, she asks us to feel the injustice of the suffering
of a character who is inherently flawed
like the men who have done this to her
are terrible people unequivocally,
but Jennifer's kind of an asshole herself
and the movie weaves in these elements
of the suffering that Jennifer leaves behind.
We see the funeral of one of her victims
and his mum breaking down at his grave side.
Jennifer is possessed by a demon when she tells him
"I need you frightened, I need you hopeless."
But it's a phrase that seems to be just
an exaggerated version
of her prior careless attitude towards other people.
Jennifer is like a classic example of a girl
who ticks all the boxes of the
she was asking for it, fear mongering and lies.
She participates in risk taking behaviour,
she's hyper-sexual and flirty
and she's not particularly book smart.
Cody doesn't want to give us an easy girl to root for.
Instead, she wants to hold up a mirror to the expectations
that we place on girls like her.
Jennifer is in many ways utterly unlikable,
kind of in that paradoxical way you often get with girls
who are both socially popular
but sort of hated by everyone at the same time.
Jennifer isn't a feminist role model
and Jennifer's body isn't interested in giving you
a neatly wrapped story of female empowerment.
It isn't trying to give you an easy life lesson.
After the ritual, which is honestly just a harrowing scene.
Jennifer's also removed from like an easy male gaze.
She spends a large chunk of the movie looking tired,
sick, or depressed.
She isn't a heroine in an iconic skin type revenge uniform.
She gets angry and lashes out after her trauma
but it only serves to remind us that
she was mean to her friend, even before she became a demon.
Jennifer was never a good person
but we're encouraged to understand that
when it comes to what happened to her, that doesn't matter.
There's no suggestion in the movie that she deserved it
or had it coming or needed to be put in her place.
It's just a disturbing injustice as it would have been
if it had happened to anyone else.
Megan Fox, Michael Bay and the letter.
So all of this leads us to the letter
from the start of this video.
The letter was in response to an interview
that Megan Fox gave after the filming of Transformers two,
during the press tour for Jennifer's body.
In this interview she talks about Michael Bay
in that super open, outrageous,
I'll say anything that comes into my mind,
uncensored kind of public persona
that she was putting out at the time.
She said, "He's like Napoleon
"and he wants to create this insane infamous
"madman reputation.
"He wants to be like Hitler on his sets, and he is
"So he's a nightmare to work for
"but when you get him away from set
"and he's not in director mode,
"I kind of really enjoy his personality
"because he's so awkward, so hopelessly awkward.
"He has no social skills at all
"and it's endearing to watch him.
"He's vulnerable and fragile in real life.
"And then on set, he's a tyrant.
"Shia and I almost die when we make a Transformers movie.
"He has you do some really insane things
"that insurance would never let you do."
So that, as you can imagine, didn't go down well.
Soon afterwards a letter was released
on Michael Bay's website
that was over a thousand words long
and apparently from some people who had worked in the crew
on the Transformers movies.
I read some of it at the beginning of this video
but I'm just gonna read some more.
You can find it online if you want to read the whole thing.
"We know this quite intimately
"because we've seen the tedious experience
"of working with the dumb as a rock, Megan Fox
"on both Transformers movies.
"Megan really is a thankless classless graceless
"and shall we say unfriendly bitch.
"It's sad how fame can twist people
"and even sadder that young girls look up to her.
"If only they knew who they're really looking up to
"but fame is fleeting.
"We being behind the scenes, see them come and go
"hopefully Michael will have Megatron squish her character
"in the first 10 minutes of transformers three.
"We can tell you that would make the crew happy."
The letter trashed Fox while praising Bay.
Although it claims to have been written
by around three members of the crew.
The fact it was published on Bay's website
and at least two inside sources have come forward
to claim Bay's direct involvement in the following years
seems to suggest he at least signed off on it,
if not actively took part in its writing.
The letter itself quickly went viral online
and Fox was branded difficult to work with
which was basically a death sentence
for actresses in Hollywood.
Bay himself then responded to both the initial interview
and the letter on his blog in a carefully diplomatic way.
"I don't condone the crew letter to Megan
"and I don't condone Megan's outlandish quotes
"but her crazy quips, a part of her crazy charm.
"The fact of the matter, I still love working with her."
But despite this soon afterwards,
Fox was fired from the next Transformers movie
and Bay was giving quotes to the press,
which were talking a lot about
the power that he had over actors.
"Nick cage wasn't a big actor when I cast him,
"nor was Ben Affleck before I put him in Armageddon.
"Shia LaBeouf wasn't a big movie star
"before he did Transformers and then he exploded
"not to mention Will Smith and Martin Lawrence
"from Bad Boys.
"Nobody in the world knew about Megan Fox
"until I found her and put her in Transformers.
"I like to think that I've had some luck
"in building actors' careers with my films."
He's talking about building up actors' careers
but it definitely feels like there's an implication
that he can tear them down as well.
According to Michael Bay,
it was actually Steven Spielberg
who made the decision to fire Megan Fox
and it has been years since this feud happened.
But I think one of the really difficult things
about this whole situation is that there's so much
that we just don't know for sure.
Interviews with CoStar Shia LaBeouf
about Fox's time on set
suggests there may have been more going on
than first meets the eye.
"Megan developed this spice girl strength
"this woman empowerment stuff that made her feel awkward
"about her involvement with Michael
"who some people think is a very lascivious filmmaker
"the way he films women.
"And she had a hard time accepting it.
"When Mike would ask her to do specific things
"there was no time for fluffy talk, we're on the run.
"And the one thing Mike lacks is tact."
That role in Bad Boys two that we talked about earlier,
the one where Megan Fox was 15 and wearing heels
and a stars and stripes bikini under a waterfall.
Yeah, it turns out Michael Bay was a little more
than slightly involved.
As Fox explained, "He approved my outfit
"and they said, you know, Michael she's 15
"so you can't sit her at the bar
"and she can't have a drink in her hand.
"So his solution to that problem was to then have me
"dancing underneath a waterfall, getting soaking wet.
"At 15 I was in 10th grade.
"So that's sort of a microcosm of how Bay's mind works."
I think it's worth noting that since then Fox has said
that she was never, "assaulted or preyed upon
"in what I felt was a sexual manner by Bay.
"These specific instances were inconsequential
"in a long and arduous journey along which I have endured
"some genuinely harrowing experiences
"in a ruthlessly misogynistic industry.
"There are many names that deserve to be going viral
"in cancel culture right now, but they are safely stored
"in the fragmented recesses of my heart."
But to my mind, whether or not Fox now labels this
as an assault or not, the idea of hiring a 15 year old
for a racy shoot like that, surely just isn't acceptable.
It feels like this really messed up cycle of Hollywood
that she was essentially secured in her role
as a sex symbol, by the same man
who has the power to potentially blacklist her
Bay and Fox, at least publicly, seem to have reconciled,
with her taking on a lead role in his Ninja turtles reboot
some years later.
Since the initial incident
both of them have talked about this publicly,
but it seems like as the years pass,
Fox gets less and less adamant
that what happened to her was unfair.
Whether this is because of a genuine feeling
or because the idea that anything but total capitulation
would just prolong the backlash, we'll never know.
In the past, she said things like,
"I got myself in this whole mess, but it doesn't matter.
"I know that the things they said about me
"in the crew letter were not true,
"but Bay's not happy with some of the things I've said
"about him.
"I was waiting for someone to defend me,
"to say that's not accurate, but nobody did.
"I think it's because I'm a girl.
"They left me out there to be bludgeoned to death."
Then later, "The negative press forced me to be
"very introspective and go
"you are not totally right in this situation.
"I reached out to him and we had a very genuine exchange.
"From that point forward it was good."
But even as her public statements seem to absolve Bay
of any blame, she still talks quite openly about the effects
that that time had on her, saying as recently as 2019,
"I think I had a genuine psychological breakdown.
"I didn't want to be seen.
"I didn't want to have to take a photo, do a magazine,
"walk a carpet.
"I didn't want to be seen in public at all
"because the fear and the belief and the absolute certainty
"that I was going to be mocked or spat at
"or someone was going to yell at me
"or people would stone me or savage me for just being out.
"So I went through a very dark moment at that time."
And something tells me that Michael Bay,
suffering as he might have been from the words of one
20 something year old actress,
did not go through anything like that in the aftermath.
Before I get onto my concluding remarks,
if you've had any thoughts about anything
that we've talked about in this video
then don't forget that the after show is going to be live
on Stereo tomorrow at 7:00 PM, UK time
just click the link in the description.
I would really love to hear what you have to say
whether you agree, disagree or have any more thoughts.
Conclusion.
Ultimately I think that Jennifer's Body
is this brilliant, fun romp of a film
that had some incredibly talented women
behind and in front of the camera
but that was completely let down
by the external circumstances surrounding it.
But I think its legacy can really tell us something.
To me it's this sort of crystallisation,
this artefact, this story that is not a one-off.
We still have an overwhelming majority of film critics,
for example, telling the public whether a film is
rotten or not, whether it's even worth seeing
who are just overwhelmingly white men
these people who apparently decide what a film should be
and how each film measures up to that.
I think it's no coincidence
that films that a target audience of teenage girls
generally agree to be close to perfection
are all rated as rotten by these men.
The princess diaries, Ella Enchanted, Cinderella story,
She's the man or Wild Child.
These movies are all like beloved.
They are clearly doing what they're meant to
for their target audience
but maybe that's a rant for another video.
I just want to add quickly at the end here
I'm pretty sure this video is going to get demonetized
based on what we have been discussing here today
so if you would like to help support me make videos
like this one, I'm gonna leave a link to my Patreon
which actually now has some new tears and goals
and stuff like that in the description
and also links to my social media
so you can find me all over the internet
and until I see you next time, bye.