Today's video is sponsored by Wren.
If you're interested in learning more about
the climate crisis and how to offset your carbon footprint
then check the link in the description
and stick around to the end of the video.
The MCU has had a let's say less than abundant list
of queer characters in their movies and shows so far.
We had the abysmal cameo from straight director,
Joe Russo, as the first confirmed queer character
in the MCU in "End Game".
A blink and you'll miss it moment,
in a group therapy session along side Steve Rogers.
There was I guess some missed opportunities
with characters like Valkyrie and Carol Danvers
which I've spoken about in previous videos at length.
They've proven time and time again that
even canonical queer characters
in the Marvel comics themselves
did not guarantee queer representation on screen.
So it came as a welcome surprise to many of us
when a promo for the new "Loki" tv show on Disney+
seemed to confirm one exciting element
of the character from the comics,
Loki's gender fluidity.
The promo showed a dossier only briefly,
but on it, undeniably, was canonical information
about Loki.
Height. Alias.
Eye colour. And a section that said sex.
And the answer had been written fluid.
The fact this has been released before the show even started
airing caused a predictable mix of hope and apprehension.
Was this going to be a key element of the series?
Actress Sophia Dimartino had been cast as a significant
but unknown role in the show, and many wondered
if she might be playing Loki in a female shape-shifted form.
Or was this going to be like so much of mainstream media's
treatment of queerness, offscreen only,
in interviews or promos, but not in the show
or movie itself.
For those who aren't familiar with the concept
of being gender fluid, I'll briefly explain.
It's worth noting that queer identities
often defy a single universally accepted definition.
Two people with the same experiences or feelings
might each use different words to describe themselves.
And people who both use the same words
to describe themselves might define it slightly differently.
But the general description of the term is
someone who's gender identity isn't fixed.
I'm going to use the definition from the community curated
non-binary wiki for the purposes of this video.
A genderfluid individual's gender identity
could be multiple genders at once and then switch
to none at all, or move between
single gender identities, or some other
combination therein.
It's an identity that can fall under both the trans
and non-binary identity umbrellas.
It's important here to note that gender fluid people
might sometimes alter their gender presentation,
for example, their clothes, makeup or hair,
based on how they feel about their gender
at a particular time.
But they also might not.
Some gender fluid people might also use different pronouns
depending on their gender identity in a given moment.
Meaning they might sometimes go by he,
but could also go by she, they, or other pronouns.
So with that in mind, let's look at the gender fluid
representation in Loki.
What's up with Loki's gender?
The first thing we should probably talk about
is that dossier.
You'll notice it said sex fluid and not gender fluid.
Sex and gender are different things.
With sex being more about your physical anatomical
body at birth.
Genitalia, chromosomes, hormones. That kind of thing.
Not to open a whole can of worms here,
but it's worth noting that sex is also non-binary.
You can have people with a whole combination
of these different attributes that don't fit neatly
into one sex or another.
So reading this dossier at face value,
that Loki's sex is fluid, you can definitely
interpret this as being about the physical ability
Loki has to change his body and cell structure.
In this case, it wouldn't necessarily have
anything to do with his internal identity
or feelings about his gender.
It would be a literal description of the fluidity
of his anatomy.
And that fluidity is entirely linked
to his alien biology.
It is one of the things that sets him apart
from the human characters of the MCU,
even those with powers.
Remember this point, because we're going to come back to it
later in the video.
But maybe they actually meant to write gender fluid.
It's certainly what a lot of people assumed it to mean
when they saw it.
The issue here, at least for me, is that
we don't actually know, because now
all the episodes have been released,
we can see, it hasn't come up at all either way
in the show.
We didn't see any particular evidence for Loki's
gender fluidity on screen.
And he also didn't tell any characters about it.
The dossier which was on screen for only a short
amount of time, and had a lot of information to scan through
so it was easy to miss, was the only confirmation.
And as I've just explained, it was itself
at least a bit ambiguous.
Now obviously, you know, the author is dead,
the interpretation is our sacred rite as
consumers of media.
But, I do think intention is useful in these circumstances.
We can look at interviews and quotes from writers,
directors and actors, to see their interpretation
of what they were trying to do.
Or the intentions they had while creating it.
So let's look at some quotes from Loki head writer,
Michael Waldron.
The first is from a interview with Collider,
where the interviewer asked him to talk about
how Loki's sexuality is fluid.
Now, interestingly, I went back to rewatch that interview
for this video, and Collider edited the video
in a very obvious way to cut the uality from the word
so it just says sex.
Presumably haven't realised that the interviewer
made a mistake there.
But this is interesting, right?
We have this mixup of gender, sex and sexuality,
all of which are totally different terms.
Waldron answered, I think that's canon for this character
going back to Norse mythology and everything.
That's an important part of who this character is
and certainly who he represents to such a large part
of the fan base and everything, so never a debate
on that at all.
He didn't comment on the interviewer's mix-up of
sex and sexuality.
Whether that was out of politeness or he himself
not necessarily appreciating the difference, who can tell.
But this is definitely more than we've gotten
from a lot of mainstream blockbuster media
coming out of Hollywood.
We're used to seeing out and out denials
or at the very least avoiding the question.
So, this is something, right?
We also have this quote from Waldron in another interview,
this time with Inverse.
I think that is best experienced in the show,
as opposed to me, a cis straight white guy
giving clunky answers about it.
It's very interesting to me, this awareness of his own
distance from the subject as a cis straight dude.
But he's then asking us to experience it in the show
that he wrote with some other cis writers.
A show he wrote for a cis director around a cis actor.
Like, where was the gender fluid person stepping in here
to insert some mysterious thing we would see on screen
that the writer couldn't explain in person.
In the same interview article with Inverse,
Hiddleston also commented on Loki's gender.
It's always been there in the comics for some time
and in the history of the character for hundreds,
if not thousands of years.
Which, yeah, Tom, you're right.
So let's talk about that, shall we?
Loki's gender in mythology.
Loki is a god in Norse mythology.
He's mostly commonly seen as male,
but there are a number of stories where
Loki is transformed into a woman
or associates with traditional women's activities or magic.
Is this just the typical hijinx and interference
one might expect from a god associated with
trickery and mischief,
or does it say something about Loki's gender identity.
Let me take you through some of the stories.
So, in one tale, Loki is said to have lived
as a woman for eight years on earth,
specifically taking on the life of a milkmaid,
sleeping with a man and bearing his children.
This story is told by his father, Odin, during
this hard-core roast battle of the gods.
Specifically because it was meant to be an insult.
In Benjamin Thorpe's translation, Odin says,
"Now that, methinks, betokens a base nature."
In the same story, Loki responds back to Odin about
the time Odin spent on earth as a female seer, or valour.
So, apparently, impersonating female humans
is not just a Loki thing.
But this isn't the only time Loki takes the form
of a woman in mythology.
He turns into a woman to Frigg, Balder's mother,
so she will unwittingly reveal her son's only
vulnerability to mistletoe.
After orchestration Balder's death using this mistletoe,
Loki then transforms again into the form of a giantess
as part of a plan to stop Balder from
returning back to life.
Both of these examples are about trickery,
but Loki could just as easily have turned into a man.
One of the most well-known examples, I'd say,
is the one where Loki turns into a lady horse
and gets pregnant and then gives birth
to a massive, eight-legged horse baby.
Like, he turned into a horse for a pretty good reason
that was kind of his own fault.
But did he need to have sex with the actual horse
and then carry and birth a baby horse as part of this plot?
Probably not.
Another classic example of Loki doing
just utterly unnecessary things in order to wear a dress
is the story of Thor losing his hammer to a giant
who asked to marry the goddess Freyja
in exchange for returning it.
Freyja is having none of it.
So it's suggested that Thor dresses up
like Freyja and pretends to arrive ready to marry the giant
only to steal the hammer back and return victorious.
Loki, of course, volunteers to accompany Thor
as his handmaiden.
This could easily be seen as some fun, drag humour mythology
but it's noted by academics that the language used
to describe Thor and Loki in their disguises
is different in key ways.
When Thor dons his disguise, he is still very much a man
in women's dress.
But Loki's change of sex is no mere change
of role and clothes, but a biological transformation.
When they are both in female dress,
Thor is consistently given masculine titles
so that we are constantly reassured of his maleness.
Loki, by contrast, is called the very wise
serving maid, as if he has actually become female.
Since this conversation around the gender
of Loki in the MCU has been ignited,
we've seen a tonne of people online asking
if the original Norse character is also gender fluid.
And there have been mixed answers.
It's clear that the word itself would never have been used
in the original myths and stories, not least because
they're not in English.
When we're looking at mythology and old legends,
we're projecting our own modern ideas of gender
and sexuality onto those characters.
They're subject to things like cultural ideas
of gender at the time, language barriers and
translation interpretations.
But that doesn't mean that we can't see Loki
as a potential non-binary or gender fluid figure
in mythology by today's understanding.
Or that non-binary and gender fluid people
can't see elements of themselves in these stories.
Disguise vs self expression.
If tomorrow you woke up to the ability to shape shift
and to change your body, your gender identity
wouldn't necessarily change.
Because your internal ideas of your gender
don't necessarily match up to your physical self.
But what if you'd always been part of a species
that allowed that kind of transformation.
Would it have affected your sense of gender from the start?
Would gender have even been something that
meant anything to you?
Would it have been as arbitrary as whether someone has
freckles or not in our world?
Something that's there, sure, but not socially significant
in any real way.
Not something that might feel integral to your
sense of identity.
Fictional aliens like the MCU's Loki
have very little reason to adhere to modern
western notions of gender.
These arbitrary ideas of like what colours
or pieces of cloth are assigned to which sex or gender
to be acceptable or normal.
It all seems a little unimaginative when you're an adopted
frost giant baby on another planet, you know?
But we want these characters to be relatable.
To feel human.
And familiar ideas of gender are part of
what many associate with being a normal human.
So, we give the aliens the people genders.
If we see Loki as a being that is able to change
his shape at will, including his sex,
can we still view him as genuine, realistic,
gender fluid representation?
Or is his experience too far removed
from the real gender fluid experiences
of actual people today?
How do you tell the difference between a character
who's a trickster god who changes their body for laughs,
or a disguise, or just because they can,
and one that does it as part of their gender identity?
We see this discussed, interestingly,
in that classic modern bastion of mythology,
the Percy Jackson books.
In the book, "The Hammer Of Thor", Alex,
who is actually Loki's child in this story,
describes her own gender fluidity.
"That's the irony.
I can look like whatever or whoever I want.
But my actual gender? No.
I can't change that.
It's truly fluid, in the sense that I don't control it.
Most of the time I identify as female,
but sometimes I have very male days."
Loki's gender in the Marvel comics.
Arguably the best representation of Loki
as a gender fluid figure,
is in the Marvel comics themselves.
In a 2008 issue of Thor, Loki takes on the body
of Lady Sif after the destruction of Asgard.
This female version of Loki is referred to as
Lady Loki in the comics.
Lady Loki has subsequently appeared
in a number of other arcs, and each time,
the idea of Loki's female identity has been a non issue.
She still has Loki's mind and personality
but is simply referred to with she/her pronoun.
Prior to this, it could be assumed that
Loki only use a shape shifting abilities
as a part of a disguise.
But, for many fans, they seem to submit
the powers as being an element of gender identity
or expression for the character.
In 2014, the comic "Original Sin", had Loki's
adopted father, Odin, refer to Loki as,
my son, my daughter, and my child who is both.
In the same comic, Thor and Loki encounter a female society
and when Thor says, "These are fair maidens",
Loki responds with, "So am I, sometimes.
It doesn't mean I'm safe to talk to."
Both of these moments highlight
the gender fluidity of Loki
and the way other characters acknowledge it
as a casual truth.
That same year, the comic series "Loki: Agent Of Asgard",
explicitly confirmed that Loki is both pansexual
and gender fluid.
The comic explains that although Loki regularly switches
between different forms, they remain Loki
no matter what gender they are presenting as.
When Loki is presenting as a woman,
she uses feminine pronouns,
but when he's presenting as a man,
he uses masculine ones.
The problem with female Loki.
So we have this character who is pretty explicitly
gender fluid in the source material.
And we know that gender fluid people
don't necessarily change any part of their outward gender
expression to match their internal gender identity
in that moment.
So, in the Loki show, it shouldn't matter
if Loki presents as he always has, right?
We shouldn't expect him to change his gender expression
to prove he's gender fluid.
Well, there's a couple of problems with that logic.
The first is that, if we were talking about a real person,
yeah, they shouldn't have to do anything
to prove their gender fluidity.
When somebody goes out in the world as
a gender fluid person, you may perceive them as
a cis man, for example.
And they might use he/him pronouns and could
absolutely look like Loki does in the show,
but they would still be gender fluid.
It isn't that the way Loki looks or acts
or how he refers to himself makes him less gender fluid
as does an audience.
It's that he isn't a real person.
He's a character.
And the decisions around what he looks like,
how he acts and how he's referred to,
have been decided by a team of writers.
I think it would be beyond charitable
to say that they were trying to make a point
about gender fluid people in real life
not having to be androgynous or, you know,
that they're gender fluid no matter
the pronouns they use.
I think it's giving them way too much credit here.
I think the simplest answer is probably the correct one.
That it was an easy way of appeasing fans
of Loki's queerness in both mythology and in the comics,
and feel like they were like doing the representation
without making it obvious or unpalatable
to queer-phobic audiences.
It lets them feel good about including something,
while not really doing much about including it.
I don't even necessarily think that they did it
in some thought out conspiracy way to be honest.
I think it's just so second nature at this point
in the industry.
Think about that quote from Waldron earlier.
This is about a show that he wrote
and he didn't have to write any explicit references
to the experience of gender fluidity in the script.
Just have that single line in the dossier.
And people would be open to interpret and project
their own feelings onto the character.
A character is what the writers make them.
They're made up of the writer's decisions.
And the writers decided something else interesting
about the various Lokis in the show.
The second spanner in the works,
is having the character of Sylvie
be the only female Loki.
And not only that, but have the exchange,
"Have you met a female Loki?"
"No, she sounds terrifying."
It feels more than a little incongruent
to have a supposed gender fluid character
who is so strangely scared at the concept of a female Loki,
especially as it seems to position female Loki
as the opposite of the rest of them as male Lokis.
The whole concept is very heavily gender binary based.
And weirdly misogynistic, too, if I'm honest.
Interestingly, Sylvie doesn't necessarily seem to be
based solely on a version of Loki in the comics.
Although early rumours assume the actress
will be playing Lady Loki.
Her name and powers are more based
on the second enchantress, Sylvie Lushton,
a teenager that was given magical powers by Loki.
Her background in the show seems markedly different
from the other Loki variants.
She has no trauma from her adoption, for example,
and never even mentions Thor.
It removes her from the Loki we know
by more than just gender.
Potentially this was to make the Loki Sylvie romance
less weird for some people by not reminding them
that like, they're essentially the same character
with the same family.
Which has a little bit of an incest-y vibe for some people.
She also has a very different personality.
With almost none of the boastful lightness and humour
we're used to from Loki.
Most of the other Loki variants, even those
not played by Hiddleston, have that sense
that they're all meant to be versions of the same character.
But honestly, if I didn't know Sylvie was
meant to be a Loki variant, I never would have guessed.
Because of this strange attitude towards a female Loki,
many have instead interpreted the sex fluid remark
to be about Lokis in general.
One Tumblr user remarking,
genderfluid doesn't mean that somewhere in the vast
multiverse there's a version of you that's
not your same gender, but that your gender as
a specific individual is fluid.
If the Loki variants had been like,
"We're all female sometimes, right?"
And Loki had answered, "Yeah, but a Loki that's female
presenting the majority of time" or something
along those lines, that would've been way better.
I feel as if they just used Loki's gender fluidity
to introduce a female variant so they could pair them up
and then absolutely forget about it.
Is Loki good representation?
As you may have already have guessed,
the response from gender fluid fans and critics
has been pretty mixed about the TV show.
Some have felt truly seen by the inclusion
of Loki's gender fluidity, while others say
it's not enough to have what is essentially
representation in name only.
I was messaged by someone who wants to remain anonymous.
They're exploring their identity but right now
they think they identify most with gender fluid.
And they said, "For me the series and this Loki/Sylvie
dynamic was hugely affirming.
To see two people, who are the same person,
one presenting female and the other male,
I'd already been exploring my gender for a while,
but that was a real, oh shit, that's me moment for me.
I feel able to use that image as a representation
of my own gender identity as I explore it,
and that helped me to move along my path a little bit.
Of course that's just how I saw it
through my own experience.
But it's something I'm grateful for."
There was a similar sentiment expressed by LD Lapinski
in their Medium article,
"Loki, Finally, Goes Beyond the Binary"
which was written after episode three aired.
Introduction of Sylvie, a femme-Loki
whom none of the rest of the characters question
as being a Loki, made this even better.
It was indisputable.
It doesn't matter how a Loki chooses to look,
every variant is a Loki.
There's no gender crises or questioning
for this mainstream antihero.
He just gets on with it, and the viewer
is expected to as well.
This kind of utopian non-binary reality
that a character can look any way they want,
present any way they want, and still be validated
in their identity, is pretty powerful stuff.
However, not everyone felt so connected
to the representation in the show.
There are a lot of responses, especially after the
have you ever met a female Loki moment I mentioned earlier,
that had people disappointed.
Some see it as a cynical cash grab.
Stacey Henly, in thegamer.com writing,
the show has come out ironically,
and admitted that Loki's queerness won't be addressed
or acknowledged beyond that one conversation.
Nothing is ever able to go deeper into
what it means for said character to be queer,
what trauma and euphoria has shaped them,
how it influences their view of the world,
or how it influences the world's view of them.
They're not characters once they come out,
they're products.
Slap a Pride flag on them and put them on the shelf
like a bottle of Coca-Cola.
Some have suggested ways the show could have acknowledged
Loki's gender fluidity in the script itself.
Even in a one line subtle way.
Twitter user @StarOfAsgard suggested the line
it varies from moment to moment,
for how they could have been explicit
about Loki's gender fluidity in dialogue in the show
without going into a big gender crises moment.
Reusing his iconic line from an earlier film
to respond to a question about his gender.
There are definitely various queer metaphorical readings
you can make of Loki.
The TBA and the timely punishment as a conversion therapy,
plucking those that deviate from the natural norm
out of the sacred timeline, which is then
revealed to be a sham, for example.
But just because you can see the reading,
doesn't mean it was deliberately put there by the mouse.
Don't get me wrong, I am so ready to see gender fluid
representation in this kind of high budget show.
But there's part of me that's not super excited
to see what a team that potentially mixed up sex,
gender and sexuality would do with an attempt
at in-depth and realistic gender fluid representation.
And this isn't the first time we've seen
an alien character with a non-binary
gender presentation or identity.
In fact, it's far from the first time.
To the point where it's a known trope
that has become a bit of a meme in the community.
Non binary representation often comes
in the form of aliens, robots or other non-human entities.
Loki is functionally a human being with powers.
Without knowing his backstory, he's pretty indistinguishable
from the other human superheroes in Marvel.
But the history and implications of this trope
means he's part of a long legacy.
The non-human non-binary trope.
To quote the incredible light of my life tvtropes.com,
"Non-human non-binary refers to any non-human character
or group of characters that do not identity as exclusively
male or female.
They may identify as both or neither of these,
or as different genders at different times.
They may be aliens who have a completely different,
if any, concept of gender as we understand it,
or they may be totally absent of biological sex
or natural gender tendency, such as robots.'
Some of these characters are indicative
oF an entire alien race.
With a gender fluidity or non-binary concepts of gender
being the very thing that's meant to make them seem alien.
The J'naii in Star Trek Generation, for example,
are an androgynous species who claim
to have evolved beyond gender.
But there are J'naii who feel connected to the idea
of either a male or female identity
rather than a gender neutral one.
These individuals are seen as being sick,
and must hide their identities for fear of,
you can see where this is going, right?
Like, it's an offence in their society.
It results in conversion therapy.
It's not actually a society devoid of gender at all.
The world of gaming has had its fair share
of this trope, too.
Flank, or FL4K, from "Borderlands 3",
Zael from "Mission: It's Complicated", for example.
In a comic based on the game "Overwatch",
the writers said that the robot character Lynx 17
uses they/them pronouns.
You also have characters who straddle the humanity line,
like Bloodhound from "Apex Legends".
You might assume that they're human,
but they're so completely covered and faceless
in a way that only the robot character is,
that you can't really be sure.
They're described on the official site with a sentence,
their identity is a mystery wrapped in layers of rumours.
So, not necessarily literally a robot alien,
but still walking this tightrope of other-ing.
The character of Yivo in "Futurama"
is a planet-sized alien with no gender
who begins dating all people in the universe at once.
Some have said that Yivo may have been the first
non-binary character defined as such in animated history.
Having featured in a "Futurama" movie in 2008.
Interestingly, there's a cell-like creature
in the same movie, who says,
"Yivo makes me feel sexy, and I'm asexual."
It's unclear whether this is meant to be, like,
the way asexual is used now, or if it's a reference
to asexual reproduction.
Either way, it's another one for the queer non-human list.
Now on the surface, this is just a fun,
little trend we might notice, right?
Like, ooh, interesting.
Very sci-fi. Very cool.
But there's something running deeper here.
And it's about the question of what we see as human.
Because a lot of these elements of representation
won't come from a desire to represent non-binary
or gender fluid characters, but instead a desire to make
a non-human character as non-human as possible.
To make them strange and different and alien.
And having them be non-binary is one of those tactics.
Because it's part of the way non-binary people
are often perceived.
This then becomes a bit of a vicious cycle.
If most or all non-binary representation
that people see is in human characters,
it doesn't exactly do much to change the attitude.
It has the potential to be incredibly othering.
Making characters seem less human.
Feeding into the idea of them being mysterious,
strange or unknowable.
And ultimately emphasising them as being hard to relate to
on a fundamental level.
Conceptualising a person or group as other
is a process explored in areas like philosophy,
sociology and literary criticism.
It describes the way that someone might
see elements of their own identity
and what is normal in a social group or culture
and notice differences with
people who don't fit that norm.
This can then affect how that person perceives,
treats or interacts with this other.
The ability to create a sense of otherness
that affects people on a societal level
is all about power and privilege.
At it's extremes, othering can lead to
an attitude that a group is less human or less deserving
of a quality or respect than the more powerful
or accepted in group.
A very similar phenomenon happens
with asexual representation.
I'm actually gonna talk about that in a video very soon,
but it's worth mentioning here because it ties in
with the idea that people with these identities
are lacking something.
Something that is the gap between humanity
and the not quite human.
Now this trope isn't always necessarily a negative thing.
We've seen over the years how it's been used
by non-binary creators as a symbolic demonstration
of the internal conflict of feeling different,
isolated or othered in a cis-normative society.
Taking a trope and using it to explore your own experiences
is nothing new.
We've seen it in the reclaiming of villainous
queer characters, for example.
We also have examples like many of the alien Gem characters
in "Steven Universe", that show how it can be used
to slip symbolic explorations under the radar
of potential censorship, especially in children's media.
"Steven Universe" is a Cartoon Network series
created by a non binary bisexual showrunner,
Rebecca Sugar, that focuses on the adventures
of a group of alien Gems and their young friend, Steven.
There have been criticisms of "Steven Universe"
for the non-human nature of their queer characters.
But also supporters who point out that
it's a way of getting around censorship.
And also the inclusion of Shep,
a non binary character in the franchise
who is not a Gem, but a human.
Shep, however, is only present in one episode
of the show "Steven Universe Future" from 2018.
So, it's far outweighed by the non-human
representation in the show.
So, how does this trope play out in other shows?
The scope of the trope.
Insider created a database of LGBTQ+ characters
including non-binary characters in animated kids shows.
But when you look at the human vs non-human
characters the difference is sharp.
They found 259 LGBTQ+ characters
across kids animated shows.
Included main characters, guest roles and recurring roles.
Of those, just 30% of the trans characters
identified as human, compared to 68% of the cis characters.
This is an indication of the popularity of the trope.
Whatever the reason for its inclusion.
For an identity that already has such little screen time
or representation, it hits particularly hard
to be so overwhelmingly portrayed using
one particular trope.
But is representation that uses this trope always lacking?
There is absolutely a difference between
portraying an identity metaphorically
as representation, and having the portrayal
be a realistic experience.
But does it matter if it's one or the other?
And is there room for both?
Let's start with the pitfalls of this kind of
non-human semi-metaphorical representation.
For one, real gender fluid people obviously don't
shape-shift to denote changes in their gender identity.
They may change their gender expression
to match the gender they feel more connected to
in that moment, but they also might not.
Arguably, these literal shape-shifting portrayals
could serve to heighten the weird or alien perception
of trans identities.
The word gender-fluid, or even non binary itself,
are often not used.
Instead, linking these characters to a kind of
fundamentally strange, alien or unknowable experience.
Many people have pointed out how
the gap between reality and fiction can be damaging.
Like Tumblr user, emptymasks.
"People are misunderstanding things,
thinking Loki is only a different gender
when he shape-shifts, because you have to
shape-shift to be genderfluid.
Meaning there are no real genderfluid people in real life
because you can't shape-shift.
Gender fluidity can only exist in fiction."
It's hard to discuss real life nuances and experiences
when it's an alien in a sci-fi future doing the explaining.
A gender fluid user on Tumblr, scarlet-wiccan,
further expressed their frustration
with the gender fluid alien trope.
"The genderfluid alien falls short of truly
representing genderfluid people.
In fact, they box us out of our own narratives
by denying our physical embodiment,
and the more nuanced state of multiplicity that we occupy."
The popular TV show reboot of "She-Ra"
had over 20 LGBTQ+ characters during it's recent run.
Including kids animation first known
trans man character, Jewelstar.
But its non-binary shape-shifting alien Double Trouble
was met with some push back.
Having the only non-binary character be an alien
didn't sit well with many
who had been hoping for something that avoided
such tropes from a show that was doing
so many good things for wider representation.
Creator Noelle Stevenson acknowledged this reaction
in later interviews.
You come into this being like, "I want to tell the story
with a character that compels me, and then you realise
that it's part of this bigger conversation.
And that's a really good conversation to be having
because it points to the limits of our imagination."
Stevenson has since come out as non-binary herself.
And this is an interesting element of
this examination of representation.
In an Insider report I talked about earlier,
of the 10 animated kids series that featured
the most LGBTQ+ characters,
trans, non binary and queer creators account for
65% of that representation.
This isn't to say that queer creators
can't make mistakes while
striving for authentic representation.
After all, a lot of these tropes are so ingrained
within the history of our community in fiction,
It can be hard to break free from that norm.
But we should be careful to be overly critical
of queer creators who are using it to explore
their own experiences and identities
in a way that feel authentic to them.
Not all queer experiences look and feel the same.
And for some, this alien, robot, non-human experience
might feel wholly relatable.
It's easy to see how this idea of the character
who is innately or naturally able to
change their appearance at will,
could be seen more positively as a kind of
power fantasy when used by non-binary
or gender fluid writers.
There's something that might be pretty appealing
in the ability to change gender expression with a thought.
At the very least it could be seen as
an artistic or creative way of showing a sense
of the inner experience outwardly.
Doesn't necessarily have to match up
to the human reality of being non-binary or gender fluid.
Might be more about the internal feelings
being externalised in an exaggerated way.
Jacob Tobia, the non-binary actor
who voices Double Trouble has said,
"There's something really powerful about escaping
from the confines of having to be a human person
when your only lived experience as a human person
has been being forced into being a man or a woman
in order to survive."
There's also the it's just cool school of thought.
Aliens, robots, supernatural beings.
There's something about that that can
just be cool and that's okay.
You can also see the trope as pretty neutral
when it comes to pieces of media
that also contain human non-binary characters.
So their gender identity is not tied to their non-humanness.
The "Friends At The Table" podcast is an example
of this in action.
With their series Counterweight, including
robot characters that use their own pronouns
and an alien race who's concept of gender
is different to our own.
But also includes more
human non-binary characters, too.
When is representation not representation?
When you're having to imagine it.
A lot of these characters who fall outside of humanity
are kind of a case of technically
their gender is non-binary.
But it's often just phrased that way by the fans
with no confirmed comment from the creators.
Or specific identity words used in the show or movie itself.
Take Janet from "The Good Place", for example.
Janet is a feminine presenting cosmic computer programme.
She uses she/her pronouns, but is constantly reminding
the human characters that she is not a girl.
In fact, she does this so often, that this kind of
mis-gendering and then her cheerful correcting
is a running joke in the show.
Many people have taken Janet as an example
of non-binary representation.
She looks like a girl but says she isn't.
And shares the experiences of having to
reaffirm her identity to people
who assume from her appearance what she is.
But in the show, the reason why Janet
keeps reminding people that she isn't a girl
is not because she is a person with
a gender identity to affirm.
It's because she is a powerful informational database.
Janet isn't a girl because she isn't a person.
She could just as easily have had her catchphrase be
not a human, and it would have been making the same point
in the show.
The reason non-human characters are attached
to these non-canonical identities is often because
of the trait the actors use
specific to them being non-human.
It comes back to their sense of othering.
The identity is quite literally the thing
that makes them the other.
It might be useful as a way of exploring
feelings of otherness in a queer viewer
but isn't necessarily going to be able to
provide a nuanced piece of representation
that treats non-binary people with a sense of humanity.
Avoiding the problem.
I think the real issue is the obvious absence of
non-binary humans in pretty much any media.
Arguably this is the only reason
a lot of these metaphorical representations
are even seen as representation at all.
In a world with a wealth of non-binary humans in media,
a character technically being non-binary
because they're non-human and don't share
our ideas of the gender binary,
probably wouldn't be considered non-binary
representation at all.
And so it wouldn't be commented on and judged as such.
There was this piece of writing advice
that everyone's probably heard by now.
Show, don't tell.
The idea behind it is that you want to avoid
telling in fiction.
You don't want to simply inform your reader
of the information, but allow them to infer it themselves.
For example, instead of a character telling us
in an info-dump exposition like,
"I have been so sad since my grandparents died last year."
You might describe the physical or emotional
sensation of sadness.
Or have them behave on screen in a way that someone might
if they were missing someone.
But this can be a little overused.
Sometimes it's more powerful to tell an audience
a piece of information.
Sometimes the budding tears don't need to well up
in the narrator's eyes as their throat closes
around a suppressed sob.
Sometimes they can just say that they are sad.
This is especially true of queer representation.
And right now I think it's vital to clear
an authentic representation
that we both show and tell.
We don't want to be an after school special
where we have to explain everything for an audience.
But for mainstream audiences, you kind of still have to
give them something so that they don't ignore or miss it
like they might have done with the Loki dossier.
Telling an audience a character identifies a certain way
is great, and showing them how the identity affects them
is also great.
If you just do the first, it could feel like
hollow representation.
And if you only do the second, you might end up falling
into the territory of queer baiting.
There are often differences between representation
that is successful in how it explains and explores
an identity to the outside world
and representation that is successful in how it makes
people with the identity feel understood,
seen, and respected.
But you can, and maybe you should, be successful
in doing both.
And that's what I'm hoping for from Loki in season two
and other shows and movies beyond that in the future.
Thanks again to today's sponsor, Wren,
who I'm so excited to be working with.
Wren is a website that helps you calculate
your carbon footprint.
And then gives you a way to offset it
by funding projects that plant trees
and protect rainforests.
You basically just answer some questions
about your lifestyle, and Wren will show you
what your individual carbon footprint is
and how you can reduce it.
And because reducing your carbon footprint to zero
is almost impossible, you can also offset
what you have left.
If you sign up to make a monthly contribution
to offset your carbon footprint,
you will receive updates from the tree planting,
rain forest protection and other projects
that you're supporting.
You get to see the trees that you planted
and what your money is being spent on.
If you're wondering about ways you can help fight
climate change, I know it can seem overwhelming.
But this is one way you can start helping today.
And you can also look at other ways to help like,
pushing for wider government action at wren.co.
I've also partnered with Wren to protect
five extra acres of rainforest
for the first 100 people who sign up using
my referral link.
So, check it out in the description.