Thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video.
If you want to learn more about them,
including the creative writing course that I did this month,
then stick around to the end of the video.
For now, the first thousand of my subscribers
to click the link in the description
will get a one month free trial of Skillshare,
so you can start exploring your creativity today.
I made a video on Cottagecore last year,
and didn't really have any immediate plans
to talk about another internet aesthetic
on this channel again.
But the more I saw of it online,
the more dark academia seemed to call to me,
specially because of this weird connection I have to it.
It's not that I have some secret
dark academia Tumblr account
or consider myself part of the community,
but because I lived in the supposed heart of this aesthetic,
this lifestyle,
for three years when I was 18,
and I saw the current criticisms of dark academia
as an aesthetic
play out in real time with real consequences.
I studied English Literature at Durham,
a university which is almost 200 years old.
It's situated in a small mediaeval city
built around a castle and cathedral,
both nearly 1,000 years old.
It's a World Heritage Site, and it looks like it.
It's featured in countless
dark academia mood boards and TikToks,
this kind of romanticised world of gowns
and cobblestones and old library books.
But there's definitely a gap between fantasy and reality
and that's what I want to talk about today.
To be clear, this video isn't about saying
that liking dark academia is bad,
or that you shouldn't be into it,
but if your chosen aesthetic is based around
reading and learning and critical analysis,
maybe actually thinking about the history,
potential criticisms and reality of it,
is, itself, dark academia in action.
First, I think it's useful to look at
what exactly this internet aesthetic is.
So an internet aesthetic is a reasonably new phenomenon.
Originally users of visual sites and apps like Tumblr,
Instagram and Pinterest,
would rely on descriptive tags
to find the kind of imagery that resonated with them,
words or phrases that very literally described
what they wanted to see,
maybe new cultural descriptors like hipster,
or colour palettes like pastel,
or even existing subcultures, like goth.
People would tag their posts with these words
to help other people find them.
But that obviously gets messy when people
start adding more and more tags
that bear only a passing resemblance to the content,
to try to reach a wider audience
or when they don't seem to fully describe
a more specific vibe you're interested in.
Although these more generic tags are still used,
eventually, more cohesive and named aesthetics
began to pop up in these spaces for a number of reasons,
including ease of finding specific types of visuals
that you wanted,
or seeking a community of people
with a similar style, interest, or outlook to you.
Internet aesthetics are essentially a visual-heavy concept
that is grouped around things like consistent themes,
repeated imagery and a particular colour palette.
It might show up in things like fashion choices,
Tumblr photo sets or even offline pastimes,
which are then recorded and displayed back online.
Uniting visual disparate ideas into a cohesive aesthetic
is usually not the work of an individual,
but a collective process that might combine ideas
and posts across mediums.
There is almost certainly not a central document
or set of tenets that everyone in that aesthetic
needs to have read,
or even be aware of.
This separates them from the kind of subcultures
and countercultures that had their origins
in the second half of the 20th century,
like punks, goths, and hippies.
These communities often sprang from
a small number of voices of authority in their subculture,
for example, a musician or band,
or a specialist magazine or publication.
They were often deliberately in opposition
to the mainstream,
and the cohesive aesthetic was as much a political statement
as it was about the visual itself.
They might expand and diversify,
but the core of the subculture
was in some way articulated and agreed upon.
What is dark academia?
Dark academia is an internet aesthetic
that is preoccupied with the romanticism of classic,
particularly ancient Greek and Roman,
literature and poetry,
the pursuit of knowledge,
and a style similar to that of the 19th and 20th century
prep school uniforms.
I've seen two connected but distinct versions
of this aesthetic pop up online.
The first is a version smoothed-over with effortless chic.
This often springs from style-related content.
The image of the natural intellectual,
dressed like a stylish, vintage librarian.
They seem unruffled as they read complex poetry,
or discuss classics at length.
The second is focused around a kind of chaotic energy,
as if powered by a frantic drive for learning.
It's too many cups of black coffee,
and pulling all-nighters because you just love
the topic you're reading about so much.
Both of these angles to dark academia have a basis
in similar elements,
so let's break them down before we discuss
the criticisms around them.
Fashion and style.
The style is based around the traditional idea
of what an academic would wear.
Tweed trousers, black turtleneck,
blazers and waistcoats,
woollen cardigans, leather brogues,
and minimal, delicate jewellery.
Dark academia often uses a colour pallette
of dark and neutral shades
like brown, grey, and black,
with the occasional white, cream, or ivory elements.
It is, let's say, running parallel to the kind of clothing
that we in the UK would consider to be
quintessentially Tory.
It might feel very nostalgic,
and quaint and vintage,
but it's mostly worn by rich,
conservative people in the countryside.
Activities.
Dark academia activities might include
reading, analysing, and discussing literary texts,
listening to classical music,
visiting museums and galleries, particularly older ones,
calligraphy or letter writing,
playing games like chess or backgammon,
practising a classical instrument.
But its connection with the aesthetics of prep schools
and prestigious universities mean that other activities
not strictly based on the pursuit of knowledge,
including sports like rowing, polo, or rugby,
are also included in many peoples' descriptions
of the aesthetic.
Similarly, the romanticization that is key to the aesthetic
means that things like daydreaming often
are listed as part of the quintessential pastimes
of dark academia.
But it's specifically a kind of consciously tragic
romanticism in a lot of cases.
A kind of melancholy that feels very much in line
with the idea of the suffering artist
or the depressed poet.
Cultural touchstones.
Donna Tartt's "The Secret History",
a novel which centres around a group of classics students
at a small, elite, liberal arts college
located in Vermont,
who murder one of their classmates,
is generally cited as the starting inspiration
for the aesthetic itself.
Obviously, people were doing these activities
and wearing this style before the book came along.
But the naming of it as a deliberate aesthetic
to be engaged in,
came much more recently in the late 2010s,
gaining full prominence in 2020.
This quote from the book sums up the vibe of
dark academia pretty damn well.
"Though not untidy, exactly, it verged on being so.
Books were stacked on every available surface,
the tables were cluttered with papers,
ashtrays, bottles of whiskey, boxes of chocolates;
umbrellas and galoshes made passage difficult
in the narrow hall.
Camilla's night table was littered
with empty teacups,
leaky pens, dead marigolds in a water glass,
and at the foot of her bed
was a half-played game of solitaire.
Everywhere I looked was some fresh oddity."
Other pieces of media cited as inspirations
include the movies "Kill Your Darlings",
about famous Beat Poets while at college in the 1940s,
and "Dead Poets Society",
about an inspiring teacher
at an elite boy's boarding school in 1959.
Both of these movies deal heavily with the themes
of literature, self-discovery, and death,
making them perfect matches for dark academia.
Other books, films, and writers
I've seen mentioned as inspiration
include "Picture of Dorian Grey" and Oscar Wilde,
"The Iliad" and "The Odyssey",
"Maurice", "Atonement",
"The Riot Club",
and "Brideshead Revisited".
In her Refinery29 article on the aesthetic,
Amal Abdi described it as
"A kind of nostalgia for a life
which is yet to be lived,
dreams of being an art history student at Oxbridge
or studying classical literature at Harvard."
And I think this concept of a wishful
kind of sentimentality
created from secondhand experiences and expectations
is a key reason for dark academia's
growing popularity right now.
The trigger cause: COVID-19.
You can see on Google Trends
that the sharp increase in interest
around dark academia coincides
with the initial lockdowns in the spring of 2020.
This is pretty understandable.
The idealised vision of yourself on an autumnal campus
with a clothbound copy of a classic novel in your hands
has a uniquely heady appeal
if you're anticipating months of learning
from your childhood bedroom over Zoom.
The poetic ennui of a misunderstood artist
has a great appeal during the collective dread
and very real dangers of a modern global pandemic.
Plus, in a time when so many people
are finding it hard to motivate themselves
to get through the day,
it's a pretty useful aesthetic for students
who are already literally required
to do these kinds of studious tasks for their classes.
This detachment from reality
is a big part of its appeal in many ways,
even as it's incorporated into someone's everyday life.
You have to start romanticising your life,
with a touch of existential dread.
Looking at interviews and posts for young people
engaged with dark academia,
the massive appeal for them seems to be
specifically the way it allows them to insert
fleeting moments of air into
everyday experiences to elevate them.
One Tumblr user, The Wild Club, said,
"I love romanticising a meal.
I'll make a decadent bowl of pasta
paired with a crisp white wine in a crystal glass,
that I got from a thrift store for $1,
and my desk is covered in candles,
ink bottles, and scraps of paper.
I have power over the beauty of it
and thus feel a sense of control over beauty."
I think that that feeling of powerlessness
over your own life
has always been a hallmark of the youth experience.
You gain a sense of self,
but are still stuck at home with parents
or in a rigid academic institution
or in entry-level jobs
with little to no respect or autonomy.
You probably don't have a great deal of financial freedom,
and are also increasingly aware of the
large political, economic, and social norms
that have a clear level of control over society
and you, in many ways.
It makes complete sense to me
that seeking out a way of romanticising
the tasks that you have little control over
could be appealing.
And that's especially true
during the last couple of years,
when there has been the added monotony
of being forced to, quite literally,
be in one place the whole time.
It might seem counterintuitive
when school is such a place of conformity and control,
that something like dark academia,
with its focus on education, would become popular.
However...
Knowledge versus education.
The dark academia aesthetic
is both inspired by and reliant on the aesthetics
of real and fictional academic institutions.
But people deliberately separate these
fantastical and idealised places
from their experiences of learning
in regular high schools and colleges.
Those are places that they're forced to go,
and learn what's dictated by a statewide
or national curriculum,
or by a particular faculty or professor.
Even though, in reality,
these institutions of learning,
like prep schools or elite universities,
essentially offer the same experience
of a controlled education.
The aesthetic creates a romanticised version
in denial of this reality.
Dark academia focuses, in part,
on the pursuit of knowledge for knowledge's sake,
the idea of picking subjects you're obsessed with,
and then living with them for years.
It's tied to a passion for learning
over formal education,
of emotional gratification for knowledge,
rather than external success.
Something I'm sure than anyone who has been
to one of these elite institutions can attest,
is sadly not the reality.
Moreover, dark academia isn't necessarily
a healthy, more relaxed version of the hectic,
pressurised world of education system.
Indeed, this post from Reddit user CJ Leviticus
expresses much the opposite sentiment.
"Dark academia is a by-product of a lifestyle.
It's what occurs when you value knowledge
and expression so much that you almost
can't contain it.
It's the journal pages filled with
hastily written chicken-scratch
that you just couldn't write fast enough to express.
It's the countless sketches of that one idea
for a painting you have in your head
that you just can't shake until it's out there.
The passion for culture and knowledge
is what really matters.
The unkempt hair, the tired eyes,
the messy desk full of papers,
the cluttered shelf of curiosities;
these are all just things that accumulate
because of that underlying passion."
Accessibility.
There is something to be said
about the accessibility of much of the aesthetic
on the surface level.
It doesn't take a lot of resources or money
to buy a cheap, secondhand copy of a classic novel,
or a thrifted blazer.
It invokes activities that can be done,
and often are, from your own room.
Reading a book with a steamy cup of tea,
an everyday task for many,
is an image to be captured and shared.
Creating the mundane through a sepia lens
gives it a kind of reverence.
The androgynous nature of the dark academia style
also gives it an air of openness.
That thrifted blazer could be worn by anyone,
regardless of gender.
The school uniform was traditionally
heavily gendered in the early 20th century.
But this boys versus girls split
seems to be rejected by dark academia itself.
Though I will say this appeal to androgyny feels,
at times, a more slightly old-fashioned
version of the concept,
centred around the concept that girls can wear trousers.
But I've seen almost no dark academia imagery,
for example, of boys in skirts.
The idea that androgyny is genderless,
or a mix of masculine and feminine,
only so far as it lets women
dress across gendered clothing expressions.
The perceived importance of the humanities.
The subject focuses of dark academia
are mainly areas like art history,
literature, philosophy, history, and the classics.
The aesthetic views them as sophisticated
and intellectual pastimes,
deep dives into the human experience.
I think the appeal of this attitude
is particularly poignant at a time when
arts and humanities are often perceived
as less important than STEM subjects.
In a capitalist society preoccupied with
what earns the most money,
or what is the most productive,
an aesthetic that explicitly celebrates
the kind of learning that goes against that,
feels like a version of defiance.
It says no, these subjects aren't irrelevant or useless.
They mean something.
They can teach us about ourselves.
And there is value in that beyond high-paid careers.
I have seen some posts that attempt
to bring STEM subjects into the aesthetic,
but the nature of science and technology
is that it quickly becomes irrelevant
as new ideas are discovered.
When an aesthetic is based so much on vintage imagery,
it doesn't quite fit to have
vintage tech or diagrams of scientific concepts
that are now outdated.
Chalkboards might feel in line with discussing literature,
but interactive whiteboards
and state-of-the-art labs are much more useful
in STEM subjects.
Relatability.
One of the reasons humanities subjects
are so beloved by so many and continue in their relevance,
even as hundreds of years go by,
is that they often say something about
the elements of human experience
that are fundamentally timeless.
Emotions and conflicts that persist over generations,
or offer a snapshot into a particular cultural moment.
Dark academia is appealing to many people
who are already naturally interested
in what it's preoccupied with.
Arguably, you could view it as people wanting
to feel outwardly validated
in an existing interest that they have.
Not just accepted,
but making it curatable and aesthetic, making it shareable.
It isn't enough to just like the thing privately.
But, as a Reddit user Gallery Expresser explains,
"even on a day where I'm in a hoodie and joggers,
I feel no less DA as a result,
because in the end, I'm still reading Aristotle in a cafe
or listening to Liszt on a walk.
It's who I am and my clothes aren't going to change that."
This is something they will be doing regardless.
Dark academia has just given them a name for it.
And they don't feel obligated
to fulfil all visual and active aspects
of the aesthetic to feel included.
Although many people are creating and sharing content,
there are many more who are consuming and living it
without sharing that experience publicly,
beyond how they just exist
in the world in front of other people.
Where did it come from?
Much like cottagecore,
dark academia definitely has its roots
in a pre-internet era.
The most commonly cited is the romantic literary
and artistic movement of
the late 18th and early 19th centuries,
a period that came after the rationality-focused
worldview of the Enlightenment,
which based itself on the superiority of reason.
Romanticism focused on elements including nature,
the individual, isolation and melancholy,
subjectivity, and emotional sensitivity,
and the imagination.
Writers of the period include Wordsworth,
Coleridge, Blake, Byron, Keats,
Wollstonecraft, and the two Shelleys.
It wasn't so much a deliberate and cohesive
movement at the time, but was later looked back on,
and referred to as romanticism.
The Encyclopaedia Britannica
says of the era's attitude to writers,
"The poet was seen as an individual
distinguished from his fellows
by the intensity of his perceptions.
Taking as his basic subject matter
the workings of his own mind.
Poetry was regarded as conveying its own truth.
Sincerity was the criterion by which it was to be judged."
This sense of self-importance and unique insight
is not uncommon in the perception of people
who consider themselves part of
the dark academia aesthetic.
A lot of people looking in at the community
feel a sense of a group of young people
taking themselves very seriously,
with more than a little sense of pretension.
What are the criticisms?
As I explained earlier,
because dark academia is an internet aesthetic
and not some kind of centralised subculture,
looking at criticisms of it is complex,
because it's impossible to critique
a comprehensive list of exactly what it stands for,
what it means,
because that list doesn't exist.
But there are elements that are widespread
or popular enough to warrant closer examination, I think.
This isn't to say that these issues
are problems for every individual person
engaged with the aesthetic,
or that there aren't people actively trying to combat them.
But I still think they're worth thinking about.
Especially, as I mentioned earlier,
for an aesthetic that is so often holding itself up
as being interested in self-examination and education.
Because of dark academia's relationship
to elite colleges and traditional ideas of literary merit,
it's inevitable that some of the same criticisms
levelled at these institutions,
will end up applying to dark academia too.
I see many of the same issues that played out at Durham
reflected back in the content and attitudes
of dark academia online.
The unbearable whiteness of academia.
Even just with a cursory glance,
the aesthetic reliance on old clothbound books
and Oxbridge educations,
ensures a preoccupation with historic Western texts
with little to no diversity, especially in authorship.
White supremacy and Western nationalistic sentiments
across the centuries of recorded literature,
mean that what is considered classic,
influential, or worth studying,
is overwhelmingly white.
In the UK, at GSCE and A-Level,
many young people literally never study
a single novelist of colour in their English classes.
The concept of the "literary canon",
those books and authors deemed worthy of an elevated status,
of being studied, of being called classics,
is overwhelmingly informed by this biassed worldview.
And this worldview, through history,
has only doubled down on the problem.
The canon is mostly sequential.
What is deemed worthy at the time
informs and impacts what comes afterwards,
following literary movements.
For much of history,
the worthy and influential works
were written by men,
mostly middle class, and assumed to be straight,
and almost definitely white.
This preoccupation with whiteness
is pretty obvious if we look at that list of works
that inspired dark academia again.
"The Secret History", "Kill Your Darlings",
"Dead Poets Society",
"Picture of Dorian Grey",
"Maurice",
"Atonement",
"The Riot Club",
"Brideshead Revisited".
And the romantics,
Wordsworth, Coleridge, Blake, Byron,
Keats, Wollstonecraft and the two Shelleys.
Looking at popular posts on social media
of dark academia sources of inspiration,
the pattern is pretty common.
Like this list of dark academia songs.
A number of more modern books
that fit into the dark academia aesthetic,
have had their centering of whiteness
levelled as criticism against them in recent years.
"The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue", for example,
is a novel which focuses on an immortal French girl
who has lived over 300 years,
yet only seems to have travelled in the US and Europe.
"A Deadly Education" came under fire
for the author's description of locs,
and had to have the paragraph edited out of re-prints.
There has definitely been support
for newly released books around dark academia
that include more diversity,
like "Ninth House" or "Ace of Spades".
There's a difference between books
inspired by dark academia
and the books that inspired and inform it
in the first place.
Writer Tanvi Krishnakumar explains,
"You could search for 'cultural' dark academia
to find non-white narratives,
but the lists are few and far between.
Besides, most of them are works that are written
primarily for a white audience,
even if they are by non-white authors,
criticisms that are made of books like
"The God of Small Things" and "White Tiger"
as well as movies like "Slumdog Millionaire",
all of which frequent these lists far too often."
The fact that you have to search for an alternate
or niche genre,
"cultural dark academia", to find such inclusions,
shows how lacking they are from the aesthetic at large.
If we look at the supposed meaning behind the aesthetic,
a passion for learning,
and an exploration of the themes of romanticism,
there is no inherent link to the
Eurocentric sources and visuals.
The texts considered to be classics
in Asian or African countries
are equally worthy of study.
If, indeed, one has a passion for learning,
why stop at the socially constructed classics
being spoon-fed to you by archaic institutions?
Whenever I see those Roman or Greek
white marble statues in pretty much every
dark academia mood board, it always makes me laugh.
Because it's clearly included for
the aesthetic value it gives off,
the creamy white colour, but also the links to antiquity.
They are the very definition of like
"cultured sophistication".
The statues, in reality, in their original state,
looked completely different.
They were painted bright, even garish colours.
A reality totally at odds with the dark academia vibes.
I imagine no one would be including accurate portrayals
of these statues in their aesthetic content,
and that sums up a lot of people's feelings
towards dark academia;
that it's a kind of visual pretension
that claims to be invested in knowledge and education,
but which prioritises looks over actual
in-depth analysis.
A thirst for knowledge is in no way
inherently linked to the tweed, wool and leather look
of the 1930s and 40s.
And the choice to make that link,
when that period was so mired in issues of racism,
sexism, classism, homophobia, and more,
is an interesting one.
There is a phrase in the vintage community at large,
vintage style, not vintage values.
The idea that you can like the 1950s aesthetic,
for example, without subscribing to the belief
systems of the time.
But much of dark academia actively portrays itself
as being about more than the style alone.
It is engaged in the literature of that time,
which in turn is absolutely entrenched in those beliefs.
I've seen movies and TV series
like "Mona Lisa Smile" and "The Queen's Gambit",
suggested as female-driven narratives
to balance the plethora of male-oriented source materials.
These also are overwhelmingly white,
and by their nature as historic fiction,
revolve around women's place beneath men
in that time period.
These women are preoccupied with difficulties
of being women,
in contrast to the more individualistic
character arcs of the boys and men
in material like "Dead Poets Society".
It is, of course, possible for people of colour
interested in the aesthetic
to bring their own cultural texts and writers
into their experience of it.
But as of right now,
the impetus is on them to do so,
because they are, by design,
not part of the central framework of references.
When looking at my old university, for example,
I genuinely don't think I studied an author
who wasn't white in the majority of my modules.
The last year of student demographics
I could find for Durham,
show half the amount of Black students
you'd expect based on the national population.
Which is, of course, way under what you'd expect
for looking specifically at the youth breakdown.
The centering of whiteness in the academic institution
is inevitably replicated by dark academia,
unless a conscious and concerted effort
is made to change that.
The issues of academia in general
will always be seen in the aesthetic
so long as it romanticises the institutions of learning
which is steeped in these biases and blind spots.
Elitism.
The elitism in the education system is undeniable.
Things like dedicated Oxbridge application classes
in private schools,
the concept of family legacies in American colleges
and the recent college admissions scandal,
these cycles of power and privilege
perpetuate themselves.
If you're already part of the elite,
it's easy to stay there.
The kind of schools and universities
uplifted by dark academia
are absolutely within the elite.
When I was 18, I interviewed for an undergraduate
place at Oxford on the English course.
The entrance test and interview
centred around a group of poetic and prose sources
about specific pieces of Renaissance art.
One of the guys I interviewed alongside
came out of his interview all smug,
saying, "Oh, Mummy and Daddy took me to see
half of these in Italy last year.
I knew what they were immediately."
It relied on you not just being able to
analyse the sources,
but also a familiarity with the kind of
secondary subjects that favoured families
able to travel abroad and see such sights.
Dark academia puts its emphasis on subjects
like ancient Greek and Latin, or classics,
courses offered mainly at elite secondary schools in the UK.
Whether conscious of it or not,
there's a specific validation
given to these subjects which are favoured
by the privileged few.
Looking specifically at Durham,
as of a few years ago,
it had the third lowest proportion
of state school educated students starting courses.
It consistently has one of the highest
number of students from middle class backgrounds
in the country,
with the percentage of students
coming from private schools being over six times
what you'd expect based on the national average.
There is also a massive disconnect between
the town and gown populations,
at many university cities, but particularly Durham.
County Durham is a working class Northern area.
In fact, it's one of the top ten
most working class areas in England,
with a local population that lives
and works there all year round.
Whereas the university population
is made up of often middle class,
Southern students who come for term time,
for three or four years, and then leave,
often never having never really interacted
with the locals at all during their time there.
Working class students often report
experiencing classism from fellow students,
as well as a lack of understanding
from the university itself,
about what would make that experience
truly accessible to them.
Access to these universities
is mired in class divides.
In the UK, universal free access to higher education
ended in the late 90s.
Since then, these fees have risen from 1,000
to over 9,000 pounds a year, and continue to rise.
The average student now leaves university
with around 50,000 pounds worth of debt.
We do have a system that utilises student loans
that are paid back by via what is essentially
a graduate tax rather than set lump payments.
These loans cover the whole amount of your tuition,
but often don't cover what you need for living expenses.
If you don't have family members
able to subsidise your time there,
you can find yourself in much more debt,
eating into your overdraft
and constantly worried about money.
This doesn't just effect the experience
of university for working class students,
but can put them off applying altogether.
The situation is obviously much more intense in America,
with a much higher set of college fees, in most cases,
and a very different loan system.
I think there's a kind of irony
that the source material and the inspiration
behind dark academia are books and movies which are often
literally about elitism,
and specifically a satirization and criticism of it.
But I've not really seen a lot of engagement
with that criticism within the dark academia community.
They wear the style of the elite,
and valorize the subjects of those institutions,
but the long tradition of student protest
and political engagement
seems missing in a lot of cases.
Education versus learning.
University is not just learning for learning's sake.
It's exams and marked essays,
and being limited by the timetable,
and the modules that you can decide to do,
sometimes that were created decades ago.
It's a dissertation advisor who is
totally uninterested in you
and the subject you're passionate about.
I talked earlier about the two types
of dark academia I've seen.
The first being the polished, sophisticated,
style-based version.
This kind of innocent naivety of dark academia
is so enviable to me.
I wish academia was like that.
But it kind of really isn't.
This, in and of itself,
it's not really a particularly damning criticism
at the aesthetic.
These things are often not meant to be realistic,
people who are fans of cottagecore
don't necessarily want to go live
in the countryside, for example.
But this is an aesthetic that is specifically
presenting itself as being about academia,
about in-depth analysis.
And it just feels like it could, and maybe should,
absolutely be part of dark academia
to engage with these issues.
If the aesthetic is an attempt to romanticise
the experience that is now taking place via Zoom
in peoples' childhood bedrooms,
is it just meaningless escapism
when it ignores these real issues?
If someone claims to love learning and academia,
should there not be a place in dark academia
for actions to improve that reality?
I don't think I've ever seen a dark academia
TikTok talk about lecturer or cleaner strikes
at universities.
Surface level aesthetics allow you
to ignore the problems,
but should you be aware of some of these issues
if you're participating in an aesthetic
that is centred around that world?
Or, are internet aesthetics entirely divorced
from the political grounding
of previous generation's subcultures?
Romanticization of mental illness.
The second kind of dark academia I mentioned
at the start of this video
was the more chaotic one.
Dark bags under your eyes,
pots of black coffee,
pulling all-nighters.
It's seen by many as admirable
to be so into what you're researching
that you forget to eat or sleep.
It's essentially making an aesthetic
of many elements of mental illness
that manifest at university.
Idealising this anxious,
highly-strung energy
as an inevitable part of a love of learning.
This isn't unique to dark academia.
I think there's this general idea
of the tortured genius,
the depressed writer,
unwashed, ink-stained hands, an untidy room,
that fits with our image of the literary or artistic talent.
But in reality, mental illness is the opposite
of creative freedom and energy.
It's, in fact, an issue that permeates
the academic setting that inspires this aesthetic
in a very real and worrying way.
This feels kind of sad to me,
because it is such a reality in university life.
I know more people who had some kind of
mental health crisis or breakdown at university
than those who didn't.
I myself had to drop out
for a while in my second year,
and defer my exams,
because I basically had a mental breakdown.
And this is evident across the country.
Tens of thousands of students
drop out in their first year.
That number seems to keep going up.
Budget cuts to local mental health services
mean young people may have difficulty
getting help as teens before they
arrive at university,
and are then thrust into this world of
independence and pressure with no support.
The difficulties of navigating the GPs,
both in your hometown and your university area,
often present a practical challenge
that creates a further barrier to help
for those already struggling.
An emphasis on preparing students for the job market
and monetary success later in life
also creates an environment that
sucks the joy out of study for many.
This is absolutely linked to the other issues
I've just talked about.
In the UK, a recent survey found that 73% of students
are concerned about how they're
going to manage financially,
and 9% had needed to access food banks.
A survey of Cambridge students,
one of those universities that always
makes it onto the list
of dark academia inspiration,
found that 21% had a diagnosis of depression,
compared to current estimates of national depression levels
which sits at 7.8%.
In the article, "How Cambridge University Almost Killed Me",
Morwenna Jones explains,
"For a year and a half,
I had felt completely out of my depth,
and finally cracked.
No longer was I thought "talented" or "gifted"
because I could work for eight hours
or read an 800-page novel in a day.
At Cambridge, everyone I knew could do that.
I was no longer special.
When my parents collected me,
I hadn't left my room in two weeks.
For two years I had been killing myself
in the name of perfection,
unable to enjoy being anything less than the best.
As a result I had developed depression
alongside severe bulimia."
At Oxbridge, according to a Huffington Post
article by Tanne Spielman,
"Sleep deprivation, high stress levels,
and an almost unmanageable workload
are normalised."
It feels so similar to the descriptions
and images of this more chaotic version of dark academia.
But where these are presented in the article
as negative and damaging elements
of the education system,
they're seen as valid and understandable
side effects of a love of learning
by many in the dark academia community.
It's something I think a lot of students at large
feel when they enter this world, too.
Like when you feel the sting of antiseptic on a wound,
so you know it's working.
If I'm stressed and I'm working so hard I don't sleep,
I'm earning it, right?
I totally get the feeling that
sometimes thinking critically about everything we do,
consume and enjoy, can be soul sucking and exhausting.
Sometimes you just want to enjoy a thing
and romanticise your life.
But to me,
the kind of people who are enjoying dark academia
are very capable of this kind of critical thinking
and introspection.
Shifting the practise of the aesthetic
to be more conscious of its biases
wouldn't fundamentally change
what is important or enjoyable about it.
It might include diversifying the books
that you're reading and recommending in the community.
Or looking into the organisations that
help break down barriers to entry for higher education.
It could mean joining protests to abolish university fees,
or volunteering with mental health initiatives on campus.
Ultimately, I think addressing these kinds
of gatekeeping elements of the education system,
and dark academia in turn,
will allow it to become enjoyable
and fulfilling for everyone.
(intense orchestral music)
So last time Skillshare sponsored a video,
I told you the classes I thought
some queer characters would take,
if they had a membership or, you know,
a free one month trial link in the description.
So I thought I'd do that again.
If I was picking a class for newly-revealed
to be bisexual Loki,
I would get him to take a magic class.
I know he's already like a space witch,
he just strikes me as the kind of character
who can do actual magic but would still learn stage magic,
for the irony.
Or, Amanita from Sense8,
who works in a bookstore and has had a wild life
in the middle of a sci-fi epic,
I'd probably recommend a class that encourages
her to write about her experiences and her views
because I would love to read anything she writes.
Or Katie, from "The Mitchells vs the Machines",
who's an aspiring director so, of course,
I'd suggest some kind of filmmaking course,
maybe one focused on graphics or effects
to bring her adventures to life.
Or Elena Alvarez, from "One Day at a Time",
who is a massive nerd who is seen cosplaying on the show.
So I think she'd appreciate
a class on making your own clothes,
so she'd be able to make a costume for whatever
character she wanted to try next.
I just took Lisa Ko's class
"Writing Fiction: 5 Exercises to Craft a Compelling Plot",
which was honestly the perfect balance of information,
examples and activities,
to go from starting idea to full plot outline.
Plus the course area lets you upload your work
for other classmates to see
and that was full of inspiration and examples too.
Whatever your experience or skill level,
they'll have classes that suit your creative interests.
Skillshare's designed to give you the
best learning experience, so there are no ads,
you can watch on the go with the app,
and they're always adding new premium classes.
They also now offer live classes with popular teachers
that you can join in real time,
so you can get inspired alongside other members.
If you're looking to try new things
or dig deep into your current interests,
Skillshare is a great place
to connect with the support of fellow creatives
and find a community of encouragement,
communication and inspiration.