This video is brought to you by Campfire Blaze. Click on the link in my description and use
the code ‘SZ21’ to get 20% off all lifetime purchases of Blaze modules for all of 2021.
There’s just… something about cooking shows that's hard to really explain. If you’re
someone who never really watched one, then you might not really get it. After all, what
makes them so different from the millions of other reality shows out there? And on the
surface, yeah, that’s true. But there’s something about cooking shows that lets
me get into a place of total zen.
I think it has something to do with the basic concept of food.
It’s a universal connector. Even if we aren’t familiar with certain dishes because,
like my co-writer Emily, we grew up in sheltered households and never had bread until
we were 19, we are able to understand what makes food good and what makes food… well, food. And the process
of actually making it is fascinating. There’s a lot of science and art that goes into something
as simple as making a cookie correctly. That alone can make for compelling enough TV, enough
for there to be programs that are just people explaining how to cook stuff to you.
But sometimes you want more than that, right? Like recipes and 'how to’s are fine, but
what about if you want something with stakes? Tensions? Laughs? Tears? Well, that’s where
you get into the world of cooking competition shows, of which there are a lot. These can
be relatively simple affairs. Things like Chopped or Great British Bake Off are fairly
chill and focus mostly on just testing the skills of the contestants and seeing who can
be the best cook under the intense pressure of television cameras and high stakes prizes.
That’s where you get the fun stuff. Things like Hell’s Kitchen which preys off the
concept of anxiety and disappointing angry paternal figures can be stressful to watch
but also amusing. Stuff like Cutthroat Kitchen, where four chefs compete to make a dish while
also dealing with potential sabotages given to them by the other chefs is, pardon the
gesture I’m about to do, but *chef’s kiss* perfect. It’s so fun and chill. You can
get some really weird stuff, like having to cook an entire meal using golf clubs as your
utensils or having to make a dish while wearing lobster hands. It’s a relaxing time.
And so that’s what I was doing, showing Cutthroat Kitchen to my co-writer Emily who
had never seen the show before, trying to take our minds off of the, y’know, everything
that had been happening when we saw an interesting program come up on the recommended list; something
called Crime Scene Kitchen. This caught us off guard because we hadn’t heard of it
and the name was, well, Crime Scene Kitchen. So we went ahead and put on the first episode
and we… sort of fell in love with it.
And it was this gradual realization that this is definitely what the next video was going to be, wasn’t
it? Like, we have to talk about it, to let people know exactly what this show
is, how it works and how it’s so disappointing while also kind of being everything we hoped it could be.
So before I go more into this video, I do want to give you some idea of what to expect.
Which is, essentially, that three months ago I did a video, that was not remotely intended
to be anything controversial or divisive, just pretty simply recapping Homestuck and
immediately got a legal threat from it. And then the month after that I did a ridiculously
long video that went into a bunch of controversies with Internet personalities and it ended up
uhhh also being a bit divisive. And then last month I made a video about the aforementioned
legal threats. Which is, y’know. Stressful. Though, you can still get this ‘young, dumb,
and full of libel’ mug at the merch link in my description if you want. Mine’s coming
in soon and I’m very excited. And given that next month’s video is probably going
to touch on some pretty controversial topics as well, I would 1) not like to be defined
solely by controversy and drama, and 2) would like a break from videos that are kind of
exhausting to release to just chill and vibe a bit. Even if no one ends up watching this.
So, if you’re watching this video, don’t expect any massive revelations or hot takes.
Rather, I found a show about two topics I like a lot that’s very weird in a kind of
delightful way, and I just want to vibe and take you on that journey with me. So, without
further ado, let’s talk about Crime Scene Kitchen.
So, Crime Scene Kitchen started this past May and had its season one finale about a
week ago. It’s hosted by Joel McHale, best known for delivering snarky comments on The
Soup, playing himself on Community and playing himself in that weird forgotten sitcom with
Stephen Fry about why millennials are bad and oversensitive and hate the outdoors.
The premise of Crime Scene Kitchen is that it essentially blends two
topics that people have become increasingly invested in during quarantine: baking and
true crime. The show’s primary challenge is that teams of two enter a kitchen where
some kind of dessert has recently been baked, and they have about a minute or so to figure
out, based on the kitchen leftovers, what kind of dessert it was, and spend several
hours recreating it for the judges: celebrity chef Curtis Stone, who runs a Michelin-starred
restaurant in LA and appears on a whole bunch of Food Network shows, and YouTuber Yolanda
Gamp, who runs the baking channel How To Cake it and creates a lot of elaborately-designed
cakes. The ‘crime’ element largely comes through in the branding; they describe the
used kitchen as a crime scene, the contestants are referred to as dessert detectives, and
the illustrations of how their desserts are supposed to look are branded like crime scene
sketches. That’s… mostly it as far as true crime-related content goes, which is
interesting because the crime angle is really integral to how they brand themselves. I’ll
talk more about that later.
Each episode is comprised of two different challenges: there’s the ‘dessert round’
mini-challenge, where the contestants are usually recreating a moderately simple dessert,
and then the elimination ‘showpiece’ round, which is…. also a dessert round, so I don’t
know why the rounds were named this way, but takes more time and usually involves a more
technically challenging dessert, like macarons or a croquembouche. The dessert rounds also
tend to incorporate celebrity judges like Ken Jeong or Kelly Osbourne, whose apparent
personal favourite desserts are the subject of that round. At the end of each round, a
moving platform that’s for some reason called the Confectinator 3000 reveals the dish, and
one of the judges explains how the clues should have led the chefs to the right answer in true parlour scene fashion. The
team who won the dessert round gets an extra clue when investigating their crime scene
kitchen, which virtually always means that the team who won the first round will also
win the second round.
Victories and eliminations are based on accuracy first and foremost, and then the taste and
presentation of the dessert second. That is to say, if you incorrectly guessed what you
were supposed to make, no matter how good it is, there’s a very good chance you’re
going home. Conversely, it doesn’t really matter how badly you mess up your dessert
if you get the dessert type right; as long as at least one other team got it wrong, you’re
safe. Obviously if multiple people got the correct dessert, it still matters how yours
looks and tastes, but that’s secondary to doing good detective work. This leads to a
lot of interesting outcomes that we’ll look at later.
Joel McHale’s role in the show is interesting; as best as I can tell, he mostly serves as
the Deadpool of the competition. Sometimes, it seems like he’s taking the show pretty
seriously and is invested in the lives of the contestants; other times, he’s sarcastically
taking potshots at the show and its general existence, and at Curtis Stone.
[Is there any show I won’t host?] Basically, he’s being Joel McHale.
So, Episode 1 begins with the contestants being brought into the Crime Scene Kitchen.
The setup essentially has them all cooking in their own little mini-kitchens, which are
all colour coded and stocked with some very cute cookware that I don’t think they ever
use, and seems to mostly serve the purpose of making the set look distinctive and nice.
We get introduced to six teams of two. Only some of them get any real focus- there
are people who the show barely really even acknowledges are there. Among the more interesting
cast of characters are Nathan and Anthony, who are two bakers who are also bros. They’re
just bros being bakers. They’re very clear that they are bakers, and they are also bros.
We also meet Jay & Thuy, friends from culinary school. It’s very funny, because most of
the friend couples get described as ‘best friends’ and then some of them only get
described as ‘friends’, which is just great to me. Luis and Natalie are another
team to watch out for, both because they also fit the aforementioned ‘friends’ description
and because Natalie’s style is fantastic. Erinn and Amanda are military veterans, which
is their entire brand to the point of wearing camo in every episode. And then there’s
my personal favourites, mother-son duo Cathy and Thomas. They’re very clearly serious
about doing well and are very clearly threats. They’re great and I love them. Also, Thomas
has a bit of history on reality shows, having once been a contestant on Chopped Sweets,
the dessert spinoff of popular cooking series Chopped, and having actually won. He describes
himself as a perfectionist in this ABC interview I found with him where the writer just….
obviously didn’t proofread it, as the quote says, verbatim, “I’m very much a perfectionist.
When you’re on a show like this, the ckicj is ticking the odds are stacked against us.”
It’s just hilarious to me. Best team on the show.
The judges are, well, cooking show judges, not being super distinctive but essentially
doing their jobs pretty well and delivering the kind of baseline comments on the food
that you’d expect, noticing when it looks nice and saying it tastes good. They don’t
have that many individual insights to offer, which makes me think these judges weren’t
specifically sought out as unique additions to the cast, but rather that pretty much anyone
with some culinary knowledge would have worked here. Neither of the two judges have any real
connection to true crime or mystery elements that I can find either. That being said, restaurateur
Curtis Stone’s run on the show is just very unintentionally funny for some reason. Some
of it is just the fact that he always kind of seems like he’s not supposed to be there
or like he just rolled out of bed and remembered he had to host a game show? Like he doesn’t
seem to comb his hair and always seems vaguely nonplussed about the whole thing. He just
aimlessly walks around the set like the guy at a party who doesn’t know anybody.
Also, Joel McHale and the other contestants are just constantly making little
jokes at Curtis’ expense. At one point after being eliminated one of the contestants just
confusedly remarks that she doesn’t know who he is. I don’t know, it’s just amazing.
The first episode dessert challenge is pretty straightforward, with us getting a general
sense of how these people go about the challenge. There’s some evidence to suggest the dessert
is some kind of a pie or tart, with pie tins and cake pans sitting around and little bits
of chocolate and eggs all over. We also get the first hint that red herring clues are going to be
included, like some raspberries in the fridge that are unopened. Two teams, Thomas and Cathy
and Jay and Thuy, make a boston cream pie, and Thomas and Cathy end up winning the extra
clue on the basis of theirs being a little bit nicer. The second round makes it pretty
obvious that the dessert is some sort of carrot cake, with carrots in the grater, and almost every
team makes one, only two teams making something else instead. The main differentiation here
to determine the winners is taste, and whether the cake is decorated accurately. Thomas and
Cathy, having won the mini challenge, get the extra clue of realizing the cake’s been
scraped in a certain way.
As a result, their cake is the closest, and their team is chosen as the Top Dessert Detectives! There’s no prize
for winning, but it establishes them as threats right off the bat, which is good because the
pair is out for blood. We also, tragically, see the elimination of the Baker Bros: the
bros who are also bakers.
And then Joel says this.
"Because next week, more teams will enter the Crime Scene Kitchen hoping to challenge you for the prize."
"That is gonna do it for us tonight. Goodnight, everyone."
Wait, what the fuck??
I love this because there was never any mention beforehand that this was the premise, no “and
next week we’ll meet the other tribe on this island” announcement at the beginning.
It’s kind of framed like a twist with its mention at the end but it’s said so offhandedly
that I’m not even really sure that it is one? It kind of makes it seem like they just
forgot to mention that this was only half the cast, which is absolutely incredible.
So, we meet our second half of the cast in Episode 2, and they’re by and large not
super memorable? It’s largely because the first half of the cast all kind of had a strongly
branded “thing”, like ‘they’re the bros’ or ‘they’re the military veterans’
or ‘they will destroy anybody who gets in their way’, like they feel like anime archetypes.
But in this episode, they tend to just be.. friends, mostly. Not really that much distinctive
stuff is said about them right off the bat, so none of the teams are really that memorable,
at least not initially. The only team worth taking note of are mother-daughter duo, Leslie
and Emma, who I would describe as the Group B counterpart to Cathy and Thomas. They’re
worth taking note of both because for about half a second I thought Emma was Maggie Mae
Fish and because they very clearly want to win. There are some indicators that Emma in
particular is very much a perfectionist, getting very stressed when things go wrong but also
demonstrating a really great attention to detail. Also, after doing a bit more digging
into the contestants later on, we found out that Emma is a weightlifter and is super buff,
which you can’t tell by watching the show but is rad as hell. There’s also one person
whose whole thing is that they’re Italian, because it’s a cooking show and you have
to have an Italian-American who makes it their whole thing. And finally, there’s… uh….
So, there’s another mother-daughter team named Rebecca and Jean who bring this delightfully
uncomfortable energy to the show. Pretty much any time the pair is on screen, they’re
arguing, and it’s in a way where the show very much wants you to find it entertaining?
The music playing is rarely tense ‘oh no, shit’s getting bad’ music, but just a
regular fun backing track? I dunno, the editing cues very much suggest that nothing’s wrong,
which just gets very weird and uncomfortable when every moment they’re on screen, you get stuff like this.
Also, they use raw egg during their baking at one point and
get called out for it.
The first challenge dessert is a cannoli, which everyone gets *except* the Italian-American team.
Lorie and Jason, who we so far know very little about except that they’re dating
and they’re from Tennessee, make the best cannolis, and get an extra clue in Round 2.
A whole bunch of clues suggest it could be some kind of cake with chocolate in it, and
a few other clues like Kirsch that only a couple of teams notice. Lorie and Jason get
the clue of chocolate bark as a reward for winning the dessert round, and the dessert
turns out to be a black forest cake, which two teams got. The winning team ends up being
Leslie and Emma, establishing them as the team to beat in this group. And then we go
back to the first half of the cast for Episode 3, which, thank god, I missed them.
The next few episodes mostly follow that same basic formula: there’s a little introduction
segment, the teams go into the crime scene kitchen slash scifi holding cell one by one,
sometimes to recreate a regular mystery dessert and sometimes to recreate a celebrity’s
favourite mystery dessert, the judges judge, whoever gets it the most right and tasting
the best wins an extra advantage when they repeat the process with something a bit harder,
someone goes home. For the next four episodes, they alternate between the A-cast and the
B-cast, the episodes whittling each set of teams down until there are three teams left
in each one, enough for them to later merge Survivor-style. For the most part, the actual
format of baking the desserts is pretty much the same, so there’s not much of a point
in recapping every single one in exact detail. It’s also generally pretty obvious from
the very beginning of each episode airing exactly who’s going to go home. A lot of
teams get absolutely zero focus until they suddenly suspiciously start to feature more
and more in confessionals that episode, or you get the slightest sliver of their backstory
when you haven’t gotten anyone else’s, and it becomes pretty clear pretty quickly that they're going to go home.
That being said, there are a few interesting elements
that crop up in these rounds.
Firstly, Rebecca and Jean continue to have just, weird arguments in every single scene
they’re in, which is just great in a deeply uncomfortable way. Very much gives me the
same energy as playing a game of Facade and being at a dinner party with a couple whose
marriage is failing. It keeps being edited as this quirky weird thing, which gets.. Interesting.
Side note, but after these two are eventually eliminated for not identifying
a croquembouche, my cowriter Emily and I went to their Instagram, and someone actually made
an Instagram account with 167 followers called BringBackRebeccaAndJean, who comments on all
their stuff and posts what looks like professional promos for Crime Scene Kitchen. I’m assuming
one of the ladies runs this account themselves, but I kind of hope it’s just some huge Rebecca
and Jean stan. Or like, Joel McHale himself. Rebecca and Jean themselves seem to be making
tiktoks about their pie shop and their tenure on the show nowadays, so… good for them.
Cathy and Thomas continue to do well in the challenges, guessing the correct dessert
pretty much every time. They get… a really interesting edit here in general. Part of
the time, it seems like they’re the protagonists, like we’re expected to root for and identify
with them. But sometimes they very much get this almost villain edit, whether it’s playing
villainous-sounding music when they’re cooking or just cutting to them making various interesting
facial expressions during other contestants’ judgings. As I’ll talk about more later,
the teams on this show don’t really interact with each other, like… at all, so those
micro-interactions and the very occasional camera confessional are really all we have
to go off of when it comes to how these contestants view each other. Weirdly enough, the moments
where they’re setting Cathy and Thomas up as these like cutthroat sociopaths make me
like them even more. I dunno, they style Thomas like those ski movie villain greyhounds from
that one tweet and have the other contestants whisper to one another during judging about
how those two are the threats to beat and it makes me think they deserve the world.
I love them. Team sociopaths for life.
On top of Cathy and Thomas in the A-team and Leslie and Emma in the B-team, friends Natalie
and Luis pretty quickly establish themselves as a team to beat as well, winning the next
episode they’re in and pretty consistently making delicious and pretty desserts. As with
the other teams, we learn very little about their actual backstories, at least at this
point, beyond the way they relate to one another on the actual show. This is partly because
the tone of Crime Scene Kitchen at this point is pretty irreverent. Joel McHale seems to
be there mostly to kind of just mock the premise of the show most of the time. Curtis Stone
explains the rules to the audience like five times in every single episode, seemingly in
case you just turned it on mid-episode or are only half-paying attention to the very
simple premise of “you go home if you get the dessert wrong”. At least at the start,
it doesn’t seem like it’s taking itself that seriously- so at this point all we really
know about any of these people is the way they interact on the show. Thomas does tell
Kelly Osbourne that he used to be such a huge stan of hers that his entire bedroom was pictures
of her, which is humanizing but in such a hilarious way. I love it.
Some of the clues and moments end up being pretty funny- there’s a tin of cocoa in
one of the challenges that the contestants were only supposed to realize was a red herring
because the expiry date was all the way back in the 80s. Two of the contestants make an
apple pie at one point in the dessert round and- let me state that I have no idea how
the fuck they managed this- ended up making a fucking soup. Like it’s just a little
bit of pastry in an apple pie broth. And the soup boys don’t go home!! It’s amazing!
At one point someone makes a croquembouche that completely falls off the cone and so
it’s just a cone with like two cream puffs stuck to it. There’s a very tacky fourth
of July challenge where all the cakes are American flags and they’re all so ugly and
I love them so much. That week they make the clues extra easy to make sure everyone gets that it’s
supposed to be an America cake, presumably so not even one team manages to get out of
respecting the great nation of the U S of A, god bless. There are also several different
challenges where just…. no one gets the dessert. So, okay, midway through the competition,
the judges realize the challenges were way too easy. Like, most of the time, almost everyone
guesses the dessert except for one or two teams. So they straight up tell us on the
show that they upped the difficulty of the challenges, and then immediately we start
getting a bunch of challenges where just, nobody gets it.
Like immediately after they tell us this, there’s a dessert round where the dessert is apparently a mango cheesecake, and three
different teams got a mango tart and no one got cheesecake so they just…. don’t give
anyone an extra clue! And then next episode the main challenge is some kind of Christmas-themed
gingerbread dessert and some people do a spice cake and some people do a gingerbread cake
but no one gets that it’s supposed to be a “two tiered spiced ginger cake” so they
just…. don’t declare a winner for that episode. But they do it in the funniest way,
they say “no one gets the title of top dessert detective, but here are the two teams who
did the best job”. Except because the title of ‘top dessert detective’ doesn’t give
you anything, that ends up being… functionally the exact same as declaring you a winner.
It’d be like if you wanted to be a Jedi Master and they said no but they still put
you on the Jedi Council.
Then the merge happens, which…. actually goes forward with very little fanfare, considering
how much the judges and host hyped it up? At this point, the military vets, Cathy and
Thomas, Leslie and Emma, Luis & Natalie, and the Tennessee couple are still in it, as well
as a couple other teams who get very little focus from the show. There are a couple brief moments
where the teams are like “oooh, new competitors”, but since the teams don’t really interact
and are all sequestered off in their own little Pinterest kitchens, it doesn’t end up affecting
the competition that much except that we’re now no longer alternating casts each episode.
The quarter-finals have a little bit of drama in them, with Luis accidentally turning the
oven off without realizing and their team having to scramble to fix their bake. Natalie
apparently wasn’t feeling well and isn’t there for the judging, but the team luckily
ends up recovering pretty well. Also, the only piece of actual game-related detective
work happens in this episode, and it’s honestly kind of amazing. Because, like I said, the contestants don’t
really interact, they’re not really able to cheat off of each other or be influenced
by what the other group is making at any point during the competition. But in this showpiece
round, there were some clues which Cathy and Thomas didn’t notice, that led most of the
teams to realize they need to make macarons.
And at one point, the team next door to theirs is smacking their baking tray against the
table in order to get the air bubbles out of their macarons before they go into the
oven. And, just by virtue of that one sound ringing through the studio, Thomas realizes
from that smacking sound exactly what it is that they’re making and that their team
also needs to start making macarons because clearly the team next to them is getting the air bubbles out.
It’s the only instance I can think of on this show
where a contestant actually makes any kind of deduction that helps them out during the
actual cooking process, and it’s honestly absolutely wonderful. Thomas is the only real
detective on the show and we stan. Team sociopath, once again, we love to see it. The couple
from Tennesee ends up winning their first and only challenge here, the soup boys finally
get eliminated, and we move on to semis.
With five teams left, we get a pretty challenging dessert round, with all the teams realizing
they need to make an opera slice. The episode bills itself as ‘the most dramatic Crime
Scene Kitchen episode yet’, mostly because Emma ends up kind of struggling with some
of the challenges, becoming very visibly overwhelmed and upset and eventually having a short argument with her mom
out of stress and frustration. Luckily, the team of veterans did a far worse job, with
their opera slice breaking up so much that they end up having to serve it directly on
the very unattractive cutting board. The teams then have to make a Mothers’ Day cake that
clearly incorporates some kind of geode design, with some interesting looking gem molds. Luis
and Natalie, having won the mini challenge, get an extra clue that demonstrates the colours
of the gems. The contestants have this chart where different months are labeled with different
gemstones, presumably because they have to figure out which gems line up with the month
of May. Emma’s salted caramel cake starts leaking and she has to build a dam out of
buttercream to prevent it, a process that looks exceptionally stressful. Meanwhile,
Cathy and Thomas decide the gem cake is a ‘fault line cake’, with a gem pattern
around the middle. It seems like Luis and Natalie, with their beautiful cake and extra
clue, are going to take this one home, but it turns out the real cake includes a fault
line design, which means the best team wins once again. The military veterans, unsurprisingly,
end up going home, and Emma and Leslie are saved from elimination. And then the judges
just keep really rubbing in the fact that they almost went home and asking them how
it feels that they were almost eliminated and it’s so bizarre, like yeah, obviously
they’re not happy they were almost eliminated. I don’t know what answer they were expecting
here.
And finally, it’s time for the Crime Scene Kitchen finale! And, for some reason, they
make the absolutely bizarre choice to just… completely drop the premise for the finale?
It’s interesting, because throughout the competition they were really clear that the
primary thing they were prioritizing, before things like taste and presentation, were the
contestants’ detective skills. It didn’t matter if your dish wasn’t very good as
long as you accurately guessed what dish you were supposed to make. Similarly, you could
make a delicious dish but go home if it was the wrong one. But for the finale, they announce
that because the episode is airing on Yolanda Gampp’s birthday, the final challenge is
just… going to be a birthday cake. And contestants can just do whatever they want with the birthday cake, no detective skill required.
It’d be like if in the last episode of The
Bachelor you could just open up Tinder and find someone there. Or like in the finale
of Drag Race they got rid of the drag element and just made a jury vote on which contestant's personality
they liked best.
But, first, they have the dessert round, which this time is going to be an elimination challenge.
And throughout the dessert round, we get these walkarounds exploring some of the contestants’
backstories with really emotional music, which is interesting because until now, we knew
almost nothing about these people save for a couple of offhanded remarks about their
backstories, and the tone of the show has been pretty goofy and irreverent so far. Not
Cutthroat Kitchen goofy, but their choice of having Joel McHale be, well, Joel McHale
the whole time definitely sets a very specific tone. The finale is therefore a pretty significant
departure from the rest of the show for a lot of reasons, as it morphs into a much more
generic cooking show narrative.
All four teams figure out that the dessert round’s puff pastry included cocoa powder
somewhere in it, but people weren’t entirely sure where, with half the teams making a chocolate
sauce and half the teams putting the cocoa directly in the puff pastry. Unfortunately, the puff
pastry in the actual dessert is plain, meaning Thomas and Cathy win that challenge and Emma and Leslie are
eliminated. The three remaining teams going into the final challenge, then, are Thomas and Cathy, Luis and Natalie, and
Lorie and Jason. Lorie and Jason are definitely the underdogs, having not really gotten a
lot of focus from the story up until now, having won only one challenge at the very
end of the show’s run, and not really seeming like viable choices to win the competition.
Really, it’s between Thomas and Cathy and Luis and Natalie.
Like I said, the crime scene element is just… not there at all at this point, the show instead
leaning in hard on the ‘competition’ angle as all three teams just… normally make a birthday
cake for Yolanda. There are a couple little elements they have to get right, like the fact that
it has to be a tier cake, but the presentation and such is completely up to the teams. The
actual cooking process in the final challenge is honestly pretty chill, without any major
drama or things going wrong. Even though there’s no mystery element left, the teams are still
all sequestered off into their own individual kitchens, meaning there aren’t really any
interesting interactions to speak of. Luis and Natalie’s cake is leaning a little bit,
but other than that the whole thing goes pretty smoothly.
It’s pretty obvious as soon as judging starts that Lorie and Jason are out of the running, their cake
immediately being described as not screaming ‘birthday’, although Natalie does call
their cake sexy for some reason. Thomas and Cathy make a cake that’s apparently delicious
but also pretty minimalistic, looking classy but not particularly bold. Luis and Natalie’s
cake, finally, does have a bit of lean to it, but is extremely birthdaylike and extremely,
well, Yolanda, with a surprise sprinkle middle and all kinds of festive pink decorations
on top of it. The judges deliberate for a little while, again making it obvious that
the competition has come down to the latter two teams, and then Joel McHale boots up the
Confectinator, which will reveal not a dessert, but instead the names of the winning team.
After several moments of tension, the Confectinator 3000 reveals via cake topper that Luis and
Natalie have been crowned the winners of Crime Scene Kitchen season one. Sparklers light,
the winning team is happy and excited that they get to give back to their families, and
they get a moment of celebration.
Then, of course, the other two teams have to give little exit speeches about how it’s still very
valuable to them that they got to be here but the credits are rolling while the speeches
are going on which is just very funny to me. The credits just play over top of the sad
losing speeches, it’s like, alright you lost, get out of here. And with Luis and Natalie’s
victory concludes Crime Scene Kitchen.
Main Course: Crime scene kitchen is weird
So I don’t know if you noticed, but Crime Scene Kitchen is weird. Like, okay, there’s
this thing I've created called the Sazlow’s Hierarchy of Strange Cooking Shows and Crime Scene Kitchen
places relatively higher on the pyramid, coming in between Cutthroat Kitchen and Dishmantled,
the Quibi show hosted by Titus Burgess where contestants are blindfolded and have to guess,
via taste, the dish that’s being shot at them from a cannon.
There’s a lot here that’s weird. For starters, let’s look at some of the clues themselves.
Because theoretically, the central idea here is that the contestants are using their baking knowledge
and experience to figure out what was recently made in this kitchen, but some of the clues don’t
really reflect that. Like remember that moment where the contestants are supposed to look
at the words “Mother’s Day” on a piece of paper and use that against a poster of
gemstones to figure out what color gemstones should be on a cake? That… isn’t anything
a normal person would do in a normal baking environment. Like, that’s not a normal cooking
thing. Or there was one where the kitchen had a coffee cup with the name Jenna in it,
and there was a scrap of paper somewhere in the kitchen with a list of who was bringing
what to a potluck, and because Jenna was bringing a coffee cake, they had to realize that this week, this was
pretending to be Jenna’s kitchen and they themselves also had to make a coffee cake. Obscure clues
like that don’t happen in real life. Not unless the person who cooked in that kitchen
was some sort of baking criminal mastermind leaving clues behind because they want to be
caught.
One of the other issues that arises with the clue system is how the audience feels locked
out of what all clues there are. In the show the teams enter the crime scene one at a time
and get one minute to look through the kitchen for clues. The editor cuts between all the
teams as they do their investigation and point out what they notice. The problem, though, is
that we, as the audience, don’t really get a good understanding of what’s in the kitchen
using this system. We only really see the kitchen as it exists from the viewpoint of
the contestants. And because it’s all being cut together, and honestly looks pretty choppy
a lot of the time, it’s hard to keep track of what teams notice what and what all clues even are.
The only time we really get a rundown on all the clues is at the end, when Curtis
goes over everything the contestants should have noticed.
This might feel like a nitpick but it does become a bit of a flaw. Crime Scene Kitchen
is, in theory, supposed to be a mystery show. We, the people at home, are theoretically
supposed to be trying to figure out the true answer on our own at the same time as
the contestants in the show. At the very least, the clues shouldn't be impossibly hard for us to follow. But we don’t have a good
understanding of what all clues exist and what the supposed crime scene space even looks like. It’s the baking show equivalent
of like BBC Sherlock, where the audience isn’t let in on all the pieces of evidence and because
of that, the mystery angle falls flat. This could very easily be rectified by letting the audience
see some b-roll footage of the kitchen before the contestants get a chance to enter and
mess with it, or even just having title cards and graphics appear showcasing all the clues
and evidence that’s been found so far.
Like I said before, despite how simple the show’s rules are, they love to repeat them
constantly. Over and over again. Like during the judging rounds, Joel (and eventually Curtis
whenever Joel got tired of doing it I guess) reminds every contestant that they need to
make the right dessert, otherwise they go home, and if they get it right they keep going.
This isn’t that complicated of a premise... do they think that after
two minutes we’d forget that if you get it wrong you go home?
Another strange thing is how separated the contestants are from each other. I don’t
just mean in the staging, but I mean as a whole, the contestants just don’t get a
lot of actual interaction. Which in some ways makes sense, I guess. This is a game all about
trying to figure out the dish independently and then working from there and any fraternizing
could jeopardize the integrity of the project. Your teacher wouldn’t let you interact with
other students during a test, so why should Joel McHale let you interact with
other bakers during the Crime Scene Kitchen? But it also just makes the actual competition
angle of the show feel kind of non-existent. There’s no real tension between players because the
players don’t know each other. When the two groups of contestants merge in the quarterfinals,
it doesn’t really mean much because, well, it doesn’t actually modify anything about the nature of the competition. The
contestants are still sequestered off into their little cubbies doing their little things. There’s
no real interaction between them. There's not even a little moment of them meeting each other
or anything. The only times we see them together are the opening and the judging.
There are a couple small moments where they whisper to their teammates or make facial
expressions when they see each other’s dishes- most of those moments came from Thomas if
I recall correctly- and they’re some of the more enjoyable little moments of the show.
It’s strange that there aren’t more of those.
Interpersonal drama is such an important factor to reality shows; creating a narrative not
just for the individual contestant, but between everyone there. Basically every other cooking
show has its contestants close to each one another, usually in the same kitchen, working
around each other. That way you can potentially see some animosity between them or have them
make quips at each other. Even the more relaxed or so-called ‘wholesome’ shows like Bake
Off, or, I dunno, Masterchef Junior still have the relationships between the contestants
at their forefront in some way; those shows instead deliberately showcasing the bonds
the contestants build with one another. But this just doesn’t have either. It feels
more like if they decided to make a basketball game where instead of having two teams on
the field at the same time, both teams take turns shooting hoops and then you compare the scores at the
end. Does it work? Sure. Is it as interesting as it could have been? Not at all.
That’s sort of why it's placed where it is in the Sazlow’s Hierarchy chart. Theoretically
speaking, Crime Scene Kitchen should be weirder than it actually is, right? Like here you
are combining the basics of a cooking competition with the framework of a murder scene and yet
there… really isn’t anything that takes advantage of the investigation angle. Contestants
have to go through and figure out the clues in the kitchen, sure, but the kitchen isn’t
actually set up in a way that resembles either an actually used kitchen or a crime scene. Clues are placed too
deliberately, the sets too neat, with the aforementioned little obscure clues you’re
supposed to find.
I don't know, I'm imagining a version where, like, there's a tier cake, and they like sprayed it with raspberry sauce and you had to
tell from the patterns of the spatter like... how tall the cake was because there's like a blockage there. I don't know, I feel like that'd be
a... a crimey way to do it.
The whole crime scene angle feels very shoehorned in. When you think of crime scenes you think
gore and darkness and disturbing imagery and police tape and mess and clutter and that
just isn’t here. It tries to mimic it sometimes, sure. At the end of each round, when the judges
reveal all the actual clues, we get these dramatic shots designed to resemble the sort
of thing you’d see in Hannibal. But that energy isn’t carried throughout the rest
of the show. The closest I’d say it gets is that the chamber that the kitchen is in
looks like the sort of thing you’d hold Magneto in. Otherwise, it’s… just a cooking
show. In a gargantuan metallic set.
What’s weird is that the marketing is totally on board to present this as a crime time show.
You have these trailers with these messy, darkly lit kitchens, including one graded
in black and white and narrated like a noir film.
If you check their instagram or other social media you see these graphics showcasing clues and case files. It’s not, like, actually
intense or anything, but it gives off the imagery of intensity in a way that’s fun,
much like a murder mystery game night. So it’s clear that the show has some desire
to embrace the crime scene angle, but for some reason the energy in the marketing just
didn’t translate to the actual program itself.
I sort of wish that they had really gone all in on this, y’know? Like really just played
with the premise and had fun with it. I mean, it’s called a crime scene, y’know? Where’s
the raspberry sauce blood? Where’s the dark humour? Where’s my dead body, Joel McHale? I want to see a
dead body on Crime Scene Kitchen, Joel.
You know what show did have fun with its premise? Dishmantled. Remember? That one I mentioned
about a Quibi or so ago where blindfolded contestants have to make a dish based on food
shot at them from a cannon?
It’s really interesting to compare the two shows, honestly. A few reviewers who’ve
covered Crime Scene Kitchen have noticed the similarities, like Andy Dehnart writing for
Reality Blurred and Danielle Turchiano writing for Variety. And despite the massive variations
in tone and runtime between the shows, I can see where they’re coming from. Both rely
on the “contestants having to guess a dish and then make it” gimmick and both are hosted
by a famous TV comedian and… it’s hard to tell which of the shows did this “better”
because it all just sort of depends on what you’re really looking for. Dishmantled leans
into its premise more and really gets why people are watching. They always focus really
really hard on the culinary money sht. The judges all sit back and drink wine and shoot
the shit, clearly not taking any of this seriously. They even have the contestants in the same
room as each other, cooking around one another, so you can get some of that interpersonal
drama between the chefs.
I mean, theoretically. This is still a Quibi show so Dishmantled has to squeeze all of
this into a six minute time frame, so we don’t really get anything resembling any personality
or story to any of the contestants, nor do we get to see much of them. It’s hard to
know who we’re even supposed to root for, because we don’t really get any information
about their backstory or personality or really anything beyond what they look like.
Dishmantled, despite being shorter and more fun, is also just more… annoying? Obnoxious? It feels
like a fake TV show you’d see a character flip to in Sorry to Bother You.
Crime Scene Kitchen, on the other hand, is much more normal and subdued, for better or
for worse. While we don’t get a lot of interactions between contestants, we do get to follow them
meaning you can actually get a taste for their personality and grow attached. It could benefit
more from playing into its main gimmick and by being more relaxed the same way that Dishmantled
was. And sometimes it feels like it’s heading that direction, especially whenever they just
let Joel “Here for a Paycheck” McHale shout quips. But it’s just not enough. They
really really need to play into their gimmick more and figure out what exactly it is that
Crime Scene Kitchen, well, is. Is it a serious baking show, a cooking show with a crime investigation
gimmick, or is it a relaxed thing where people can be chill and take the piss? I’m not
sure what the proper way forward is or what would be the best direction to go.
Except I do, actually. More camp, please. Please more camp.
Something that was going through my mind the whole time I was watching Crime Scene Kitchen
was “Why?” Like, why did they make the show like this? Why go for the crime scene
angle? Especially if you’re not going to, y’know, actually do crime scenes.
This isn’t really something I can confirm on my own. I mean, the show is still new and
it isn’t something people are doing a lot of reporting on, so it’s not like I can
just pull out an interview and get the definitive answer for how this show was created. And
I could submit questions directly to the show’s producers to see if I could get some answers
there, but I mean why would a serious production company
answer an email from some random Youtuber desperate to know the naming origins of the
Confectionator 3000?
So I guess what I have to do is take a bunch of what I can find and what I’ve seen, little
scraps of evidence and clues, and hope that it leads me to a proper conclusion. My first
hypothesis is that the crime scene angle was added solely to capitalize on the popularity
of true crime stories and police procedurals. True crime has become big, especially online,
and police procedurals are network television’s bread and butter. So taking that and combining
it with actual bread and butter that you’d use for baking, and you have something that
seems perfectly fit to satisfy a large demographic. This could very well be possible.
So mystery solved, right? I guess I can go ahead and end this video. But, uh, just one
more thing. I noticed something in the background of one of the clips. That camera person with
a large camera on his shoulder that is probably hurting their back. What’s that they have on
their face? Oh, that’s right. A mask.
And then it all hit me. This was made during cov*d times.
And everything sort of sunk into place.
I’m not sure exactly when this was filmed. The show was formally announced on April 7th,
2021. Whether they already had everything shot beforehand or did so in the month and
a half until the premiere is unclear. Regardless, if you haven’t noticed, we are very much
in a pandem*c. And while things are getting better in some parts of the world as vaccinations
increase, there’s still a large issue with how to create content in these conditions,
especially on productions that require larger crews. And this is a problem because, well,
networks need things to play on television. They just can’t have a dead slot. They need
content, which means they need to find ways to make content.
And enter the Crime Scene Kitchen.
That’s why the contestants are separated from each other.
That’s why everyone gets their own personal kitchen.
That’s why they explore the crime scene one group at a time.
You could even argue it’s the reason why they have the contestants wearing gloves when
they go to investigate. It’s the easiest way to keep the place sanitized, especially
considering how close and personal people get here.
This could all be incidental, but it adds up. Every piece of this show feels designed
to adhere to COV*D regulations, perfectly sculpted and crafted to minimize
spread as much as you possibly can while still doing a cooking show.
This doesn’t necessarily explain why they didn’t, y’know, do actual crime scene
stuff on the show called Crime Scene Kitchen. But it can potentially explain how they arrived
at the idea to keep everyone separated like this and how that played into the strange,
bizarre yet weirdly normal show that we currently have and love today.
This would be the point in the video where I wrap everything up and tie it back into
some grand thesis statement that says something about the world or society or whatever, when
we realize this dumb media thing we were talking about has actual applications that we can
use to better our understanding of the world around us and how we approach life. I would
say something about how Crime Scene Kitchen showcases the struggles of network TV to fill
content blocks, and possibly how it reflects the harsh adaptations we have to make to do
a production in these unprecedented times of COV*D,
how the challenges of cov*d essentially contract with like the capitalist demand for More And More Content At Any Cost
and the kinds of adaptations that need to exist for us to do that.
how the existence of reality television kind of inherently reflects an exploitative artificially constructed reality
very carefully orchestrated by producers and editors to hide their own existence,
rather than any actual organic sincerity.
But at the end of the day, the real important thing here is that I found a show that I wanted to talk about and I talked about it.
Crime Scene Kitchen isn’t the weirdest show out there, nor the most seemingly malicious.
It’s a television show that reflects the dishes its contestants are baking: it’s
a fluffy dessert, meant to be consumed absentmindedly and without much worry at the end of the day.
There are certain things that I want to see done better, should this ever progress into
a season 2. I want to see what this show could look like if they just let it go off the rails.
Go all in on the crime angle, let the contestants have fun with each other, decide if this is
supposed to be a stressful competition or a lighthearted romp.
Cooking shows don’t necessarily need to have gimmicks and don’t need to go all in.
In reality, I’m not sure if I learnt anything about baking from watching Crime Scene Kitchen,
beyond how to identify if someone is making macarons on the other side of the wall. But
the joy in these gimmicky, kitschy cooking shows is getting to experience something seemingly
conventional like baking through the lens of sheer buckwild madness. If that madness
was channeled and honed in on, Crime Scene Kitchen could grow to be a legitimately really
really fun show. It just needs to flesh out its premise and figure out how it can change
in order to get the most out of its hosts and its subjects.
Whether or not this is the end of Crime Scene Kitchen’s story, I don’t know. From what
I can tell its ratings aren’t that amazing and if this show does exist to be COVID content
filler, then the network might not feel the push to renew it. Regardless of whether or
not it continues, I can definitely say that it did what it needed to, which was provide
a weird bizarre thing to get invested in for a few weeks. And for that, well, I’ll say
it was worth it.
Also Thomas, you’re great. Sorry we called you and your mom sociopaths. I hope you’re
happily baking with batter made from the blood of your enemies.
One thing I really love is storytelling, and you can see it pretty much anywhere, from
standard novels to the narratives we can find in the weirdest reality cooking shows. Personally,
I love writing and storytelling, whether it’s creating DND characters or keeping track of
my own stories. That’s why I’m really excited about Campfire Blaze, an incredibly
cool application and my sponsor for this video. Essentially, Campfire Blaze is a browser-based
writing application that lets you keep track of story elements. It’s essentially made
up of a ton of different modules, like characters and worldbuilding, that let you do things
like make relationship webs to keep track of how characters relate to each other, or
modules to keep track of maps or magic systems or religions in your world. I really love
using it because it comes with tons of different themes to fit the vibe of whatever it is you’re
writing, like fantasy or Western or Scifi, all the way to things like romance and horror.
Campfire Blaze also receives new features every month, plus it’s completely free to
use for smaller projects. If you do need more space, you only have to pay for the features
you need for as little as fifty cents. They also have a 30-day return policy if you’re
not satisfied. Personally speaking, though. I really love Campfire Blaze. What I’ve
been using it for since getting it is actually my.. Sims soap opera that I’ve been running
on Twitter. So if you’ve enjoyed that, you can thank Campfire Blaze. If you want to learn
more, just click the link in my description. You can use my code, ‘SZ21’ (or S- zee,
21, depends on how you say it), and receive 20% all lifetime purchases of Blaze modules
for all of 2021.