This video is brought to you by Curiositystream. Get access to Curiositystream and my streaming service Nebula
and check out my Nebula exclusive video, Debater Theater, when you sign up for curiositystream
at curiositystream.com/sarahz with the coupon code SarahZ!
Having a big platform can be challenging, but also really great and rewarding. You can
use it to help those who need it, spread important information during challenging times, boost
the creative works and perspectives of others, or even just share things you’ve made or
find cool to a large audience. And during the time of mass disease, a literal civil
rights uprising, and increasing anxiety and loneliness from a group of people who are
worried about their present and future, there’s so much a person with a substantial platform
can do to help. Whether it’s sharing information to people quickly, a show of solidarity to
people fighting for their rights, or boosting charities to help those in need such as bail
or mutual aid funds, if there was ever a time to use a large following responsibly, it’s
now.
Especially if a whole generation of young adults grew up with your work and find solace
in the world you’ve created, showing them you’re there for them and support their
rights can easily help provide the comfort a lot of folks have been looking for. And
during this time of struggle and inequality, and also Pride Month, children’s author
JK Rowling has bravely decided to use her platform to….. complain about trans people
on Twitter. Cool.
It’s… been known for a while that Jowling Kowling Rowling is… how do I put this delicately…
a washed-up reactionary transphobe. Though in the past she’d been pretty fond of covering
it up with plausible deniability. I mean, she initially liked a series of tweets by
a prominent trans exclusionary radical feminist, or TERF, essentially expressing issues with
trans people and implying that the ability to legally self-identify as your gender is
bad. She liked a few of these, including a tweet claiming trans women were “blackface
actors who got their sexual kicks from being treated like women”. Lovely, right?
Her publicist blamed this on a senior moment and essentially claimed that she was just
holding her phone wrong, which people had very good reason to doubt based on who she
followed, but is maybe plausible if it’s the first time this has ever happened. She
later went on to tweet her defense of Maya Forstater, a tweet filled with outright lies
about the case and what happened. She says “but force women out of their jobs for saying
sex is real?” In a later post she wrote on this June 10th, she claimed that Maya had
“lost her job” for her “philosophical belief that sex is determined by biology”.
So, this literally didn’t happen and is an outright misrepresentation by Rowling,
and I’ll talk more specifically about exactly how dishonest of a thing this is to say a
little bit later. But at this point, suffice it to say people were pretty frustrated with
her comments, particularly in conjunction with the fact that she’d previously liked
tweets that suggested some serious hostility towards trans people. And a lot of people,
especially trans people who are at this point pretty used to people outwardly claiming they
support you while repeating rhetoric from those who are hostile to you, were like “hey,
it sounds like this lady might be a TERF”.
And then a few days ago, instead of tweeting about any current issues that might be a little
more important than complaining about trans folks, she made this tweet to a 9 year old
about her new kids’ book, with this weird paragraph in the middle of it. It was copied
and pasted from a years old article about a trans woman named Tara Wolf who punched
a cis woman and had to pay some court fees after the cis woman started kicking and grabbing
at Tara’s girlfriend.
Notably, this is a pretty old case by now and the article Rowling had quoted from repeatedly
referred to Tara Wolf as “he”, which once again made people suspicious of
why she even had that paragraph copied to send to someone in the first place, particularly-
once again- in conjunction with her other tweets by now. She responded with some stuff
about thought crimes and censorship and authoritarianism, because as we all know censorship is when
you criticize someone for what they say, and in a truly uncensored society no one is allowed
to express criticism of another person’s ideas.
Then, only like a day later, Rowling made this snide tweet about an article supporting
the need for better menstrual healthcare, where she was like “people who menstruate…
don’t you mean… women? Destroyed with facts and logic”. She wasn’t even just
saying that most women menstruated, she was trying to claim that “women” and “people
who menstruate” were synonymous.
This is such a smooth brained take even divorced from the fact that it’s obviously a jab
at trans people, because the article… wasn’t talking about women. It was talking about
people who menstruate. Women in their 50s and older are women, but they mostly don’t
menstruate so the article wasn’t talking about them. Preteen and teenage girls are
not women, but they often menstruate, so the article was talking about them. It was just
this weirdly snide attempt to get in an epic own about trans people, despite the fact that
the language the article was using actually *increased* the clarity of their point, whereas
the language Rowling preferred would have obfuscated it.
At this point, her disdain for trans people and refusal to take them seriously is very
obvious, and so she- quite rightfully- received criticism for her statements. A lot of people
did indeed respond with anger and hostility, and honestly that’s completely fair and
they have the right to be angry. So you can imagine already the response she got from
her defenders, which was “well, you expressed your point calmly, and they expressed their
point angrily, so that means you’re right and they’re the *real* intolerant ones”.
It’s this liberal obsession with aesthetics, where it doesn’t actually matter what someone
is saying, but how they say it. The problem with bigots isn’t that the things they’re
saying are bigoted, but that they’re very loud and rude about it. It’s how you get
profiles from news websites fawningly describing bigots as ‘dapper’.
But a lot of people also very much did try to politely educate her about how those terms
aren’t synonymous and how just using the term ‘women’ ignores the fact that many
trans men do fit that definition of the term, and many trans women don’t, and erasing
them like that is harmful. And in response, she decided to announce that she thinks TERF
is a slur, acknowledging trans people erases LGBT people, which is really ironic given
her shenanigans with refusing to depict Dumbledore as actually gay, and how trans activists want
to erase the fact that sex is real. The whole “sex is real” thing is really interesting
in that it’s essentially a complete strawman that she’s using to justify complaining
about trans people.
Like, literally no one is saying that being a woman hasn’t shaped her lived experiences,
just that… being assigned female at birth isn’t the only way to be a woman. No one
is saying sex isn’t real, just that whatever you were assigned at birth doesn’t have
to define your gender identity. And it’s very obviously not actually about “sex being
real”, because it’s this exact same line that she used to defend Maya Forstater despite
the fact that “sex is real” isn’t what Maya was saying. But more on that later.
Anyway, this was all bad enough as it was. At this point, it was very obvious that despite
her platitudes of “well, I’d march with trans people IF they were being discriminated
against”, she very obviously doesn’t view trans people as being the gender they say
they are, and repeatedly allies with TERFs instead. Like… enough hiding behind your
hands and going “tee hee, I just think sex is real!”. Let’s say what we mean, here.
But then, on June 10th, she comes out with this, like… manifesto. Where she makes all
these truly bizarre points about how trans women are dangerous in locker rooms and…
I mean, it’s rough. And embarrassing for her, I mean, she has one of the biggest platforms
in the world and thus access to some of the best resources for learning about what trans
people actually think and believe, and yet it’s full of outright lies and misinformation.
Like, chock-full.
So that’s where we are now. And, understandably, a lot of people are hurt by this. I mean,
her books, and the world inside them, really did shape a lot of people’s childhoods.
People grew up with them, and were often the same age as the characters when the books
or the movies came out. Finding out the author to something you like has some really terrible
beliefs hurts, and I’ve especially seen a lot of trans people I care about feeling
really upset and frustrated that not only does someone who was such a big part of their
childhoods feel that way, but also that she’s using her platform right now to talk about
this of all things.
And there’s also this sentiment that I’ve seen crop up in an attempt to reconcile those
feelings that usually goes something like, “Hatsune Miku wrote harry potter”, or
“Harry Potter belongs solely to fans now” or “Harry potter is authorless”. It’s
essentially this repeat of the popular old argument of “can we truly separate the art
from the artist”? A lot of people really do love these stories, and either don’t
want to reconcile that the person creating them sucks or simply want to reclaim it from
its harmful origins. And as someone who previously made a video against death of the author using
Rowling as an example, I find this social push to be really interesting.
In this video, I want to do two things. First, I want to look at the claims made by Rowling
in her… manifesto or dissertation or whatever you want to call it. I want to make it really,
unequivocally clear what the problem here is. How it’s dangerously misinformed at
best and actively dishonest at worst. And second, I want to talk about this push to
reclaim Harry Potter and her stories from her. To interpret them as authorless, claim
that they were written by Hatsune Miku or no one in particular, and the act of separating
the art from the artist in general.
In case you weren’t already aware, her weird rant is chock-full of harmful lies and misleading
statements about trans people, so I’ve provided the timecode here for where you can skip to
if you just want to watch the second part of my video. But I felt it important to go
through these claims, because already her defenders have come out of the woodwork claiming
“well, she just thinks being a woman affects her experiences! I don’t know what could
possibly be transphobic about that!”. So I want to break down all the things wrong
here. Special thanks to the Twitter threads of Parker Malloy and Andrew James Carter,
who’ve broken everything down really well and succinctly and exposed a number of issues
with the things she’s said.
So, she starts off this thread, as previously stated, by mentioning Maya Forstater, a woman
who Rowling claims “lost her job” for believing that “sex is determined by biology”.
So, as I already said. This did not happen. So part 1 of her sentence here is the implication
that she had been fired or lost her job. Already not true.
So, Maya Forstater was a short-term independent contractor at the Center for Global Development,
who made a series of tweets and DMs claiming that it was ridiculous to ‘pretend’ that
trans women were women, and straight up misgendering a colleague of hers who was trans. As a result,
once her contract expired, her contractors decided not to renew it. So, this was not
her permanent job, and she didn’t lose it: her contract was going to end at the exact
same time regardless.
No matter what she tweeted, an employer certainly has no responsibility to renew anyone’s
short-term contract whose work they’re not happy with. The contract was up, and Maya
was welcome to go her separate way. And as for part 2, that they didn’t want to keep
doing business with her because she believed “sex was determined by biology”... also
not true. Here’s an actual excerpt from the things she tweeted, taken straight from
the publicly available court decision: “Everyone's equality and safety should be protected, but
women and girls lose out on privacy, safety and fairness if males are allowed into changing
rooms, dormitories, prisons, sports teams.”
She’s not talking here about biology and sex, she’s talking about how trans women,
whom she repeatedly stated in her tweets she feels are “males”, should be excluded
from spaces for women. Nevermind the massively increased risk of violence trans women face
in male prisons or the fact that a trans woman has never assaulted anyone in a female changing
room, of course. So this was not about “sex being real”, it was about whether trans
people should be allowed into these spaces, and whether they pose a “risk” to cis
women. Which, to be clear, they don’t. Not only that, but these weren’t just random
tweets about her own philosophical views completely divorced from Maya’s work life.
She was also making comments about colleagues and potential buyers from other investment companies, including
one who identifies as nonbinary. She made numerous tweets about them, repeatedly and
specifically targeting them, with a lot of really rude and hurtful comments that you
can see here. So this wasn’t about “believing” anything, philosophically. This is that she
was specifically making public, rude tweets about someone her contractor was doing business
with. Which is just, y’know. Bad for business. Even if the person she was targeting wasn’t
trans, it’s still very fair to not renew an expired contract because of it. Even moreso
that she’s clearly punching down here.
So, after making a litany of these tweets, specifically about people she’s working
with, and after being repeatedly asked to stop,
her contractor doesn’t want to renew her contract. Maya’s response is to take
them to court, claiming her “gender critical” beliefs are philosophically protected, and
that her contractor should therefore have to renew her contract as a result. It- very
obviously- gets thrown out, because firstly the contract had already expired and you can't
force someone to perpetually renew
a short-term contract, and secondly, because she was specifically
creating a hostile work environment against her colleagues.
It had nothing to do with “wrongthink” or what she believed: it was that her actions
were making everyone uncomfortable and she was hard to work with. So when JK Rowling
tweets “I Stand With Maya”, she’s not standing with a woman wrongly fired for innocently
believing sex is real. She’s standing with a woman who didn’t get a job she wanted
because she tweeted transphobic shit about her colleagues and made her business look
bad.
See, this is why misinformation is such a pain to debunk. It takes six seconds to tweet
out “a woman was fired for saying sex is real!” and tons of research and four minutes
of speaking time and 4000 characters to explain why that’s very much not what happened.
It’s why a woman with 14 million followers can spread rhetoric that leads to increased
targeting of trans people so easily, how it’s so easy someone who spends ten seconds reading
her tweet might think “wow, it *is* messed up that activists are firing someone for believing
facts”. Uuuugh.
Then she talks about how she’s spoken to trans people, and read literature, and is
very educated on the subject, and how you couldn’t possibly argue that she’s misinformed
because she very much knows what she’s talking about. Real talk, I think this makes her look
worse. I mean, let’s say she was just misinformed. This still isn’t great. Like, it’s already
bad enough that someone with such a massive platform doesn’t do their due diligence
in properly looking into things before making inflammatory tweets. She has the equivalent
of the entire population of Istanbul following her. Look into the court case you’re tweeting
about before sharing it to all of Istanbul. I have about one Salt Lake City following
me, and I’d feel terrible if I misinformed all those Mormons to a similar scale. But
her insistence that she’s done her research and educated herself on trans issues before
tweeting this means she’s not just misinformed about this case. By her own admission, she’s
lying on purpose. That is… so much worse.
And then she addresses that “like”, from earlier. The one about how trans women are
blackface actors who get off on being treated like women. Remember that last time she talked
about this, it was her claiming she was “holding her phone incorrectly”. She now reveals
that that was a lie, which really inspires a lot of confidence in her ability to be honest.
Instead, she was just saving tweets that were of interest to her, and decided to like one
instead of screenshotting it. She then claims Magdalen Burns was only viewed as transphobic
for believing in “the importance of biological sex” and saying lesbians didn’t have to
date trans women, which… again. Not true. She not only made all those earlier comments
about blackface, but also said stuff like “everybody knows trans women are men”,
and retweeted stuff implying that the 'trans lobby' came from Jewish billionaire George Soros
This is the same women Rowling describes here as “immensely brave”. Yeah, hating trans
people is a real fringe opinion.
She then goes on to detail the onlineabuse she’s received. And as someone who’s some
kind of online figure myself, I’m always really hesitant when it comes to people saying
stuff like this in response to the criticism they’ve received. I mean, I know firsthand
that when some people are politely criticizing you, and some people are harassing you horribly,
it can get so overwhelming that it all bleeds in and feels like harassment. But as people
with platforms, simply ignoring any criticism we get and detailing it as all harassment
is an impulse we have to resist.
I say that not to downplay any harassment JK Rowling received, but to frame the majority
of the response her tweets got in this light is just dishonest. Many people, in response
to her Maya Forstater tweets and many others, were indeed trying to politely educate her,
something she evidently did not listen to. And by framing all of her critics as horrible
harassers, especially in contrast to this later paragraph where she describes her supporters
as “kind, empathetic, and intelligent people”, she once again frames trans people, and trans
activists, as more dangerous and aggressive than others.
Which people already say about trans people, and already use as justification to deny them
access to public life. It’s not an honest representation of the bulk of the criticism
she received, and while that doesn’t mean she can’t talk about harassment and threats
at all, using rhetorical language that frames the majority of her critics in this way is
dishonest and unfair.
And once again, it’s this focus on aesthetics and politeness over the actual impact one’s
words have on people’s lives. While I’m not principally a fan of book burnings, someone
using a book of yours they bought as compost is not comparable to the very real and tangible
impacts being repeatedly misgendered can have on trans people’s lives. She’s really
mocking here of the idea that her works are “literally killing trans people”, but
not being accepted as the gender you are genuinely does impact one’s mental health to that
degree. I talk about a whole study that proves that in one of my earlier videos. The difference
is staggering.
And then she talks about the term TERF, and how it’s a slur designed to marginalize
women who are simply concerned about the preponderance of uh… gay people transitioning to avoid
being bullied for being gay. Because, as we all know, trans people don’t experience
bullying and harassment comparably, and it’s much easier to be a trans person than it is
to be gay. And then she’s like “they can’t be TERFs, they include trans men, because
they think trans men are women”, which… is self-evidently bad logic, but particularly
so because she goes on this whole rant later about how girls are being tricked into thinking
they’re trans men in order to escape misogyny and the trans lobby is lying to girls and
it’s like okay sure, this is really supportive of trans men.
And then she brings up changing rooms. Sigh. I mean, I don’t know what exactly I was
expecting here, but somehow it was… *something* of more substance than this? She talks about
how worrying it is that “any man who says they identify as a woman” can enter women’s
changing rooms, and later says how this poses a real risk to women and girls.
I mean… this is nothing new, right? This is the exact same tired old transphobic fearmongering
that has baselessly been used against trans folks for ages. It’s like *the* anti-trans
dogwhistle, and the idea that there’s either a) an epidemic of trans women assaulting cis
women in bathrooms and changing rooms or b) an epidemic of men *claiming* to be trans
women in order to do so is just… ridiculous. I mean, this just doesn’t happen. It doesn’t
happen in the UK, it doesn’t happen in countries like Norway or Denmark where you can legally
identify as trans without medical intervention, it doesn’t happen.
Firstly, assaulting people in a bathroom is already illegal. It’s illegal for a cis
woman to do it to another cis woman, or for a man to do it to a cis woman, or for anyone
to do it for anyone. There’s no secret legal loophole where if you’re a man you can put
on a Bugs Bunny-like disguise and go into a changing room and suddenly you can get away
with attacking someone. And secondly, men don’t need to pretend to be trans to attack
women and girls.
The limited legal recourse women who have been assaulted have currently is evidence
enough of the fact that many men do this in the open anyway. Given the seriously elevated
risk trans women have of being assaulted, both by men and by cis women who film them
in public bathrooms and yell at them for existing, the idea that anyone who isn’t trans would
pretend to do so in order to commit crimes ignores the massive risk they would face to
themselves as a person, when evidently the consequences of attacking someone while presenting
as a cis man are not that dire.
And finally, trans women as a group are not predators en masse. Many trans women have
been using the correct women’s bathrooms and changing rooms every single day for ages.
This is not a new thing, and there do not exist mass accounts of those trans women attacking
people. In the UK, the Equality Act of 2010, passed 10 years ago, mandates that trans people
are welcome to use the bathrooms matching their gender identities. This is not new,
and trans women have never posed an elevated risk to cis women.
Rather, trans women are more likely to be attacked than they are to be attackers, and
this is regularly supported by the data. JK Rowling, in her alarmist rant about “men
who think they’re trans” putting women in danger by entering their spaces, doesn’t
remotely seem concerned about the much higher and much more real danger posed to trans women
by excluding them from those spaces.
Also like… if you want to avoid the problem of men in women’s changing rooms, you certainly
aren’t going to do that by forcing people into the changing rooms of their assigned
genders, or you’re going to have trans men in there. Bad, bad argument.
I haven't actually drank any of this rosé yet.
Like, I wanted to have something to drink on a hot day, but I've been so focused and like, heated
about this that I haven't even...
I feel like Davis Aurini, Jesus.
She then has this weird bit about how she funds MS research and MS acts differently
in men and women, and trans people are trying to make it so that you have to… do something
to prevent this? She’s really unclear about it, she just says “MS presents differently
in men and women and trans people will harm this by eroding the legal definition of sex”?
Which.. no they won’t, it’s just a weird assertion that’s not backed up by anything.
In fact, treating trans women as exactly the same as cis men medically speaking is much
more dangerous than acknowledging trans people exist, because transitioning changes how you
respond to certain diseases and it’s something that needs to be taken into account individually.
I spoke with my sister, who’s a medical doctor, about this, and she told me it depends
on the disease and symptoms and what a person’s transition looks like- when in their life
they transitioned, how they transitioned, and all these factors. In some cases, a trans
women’s risk of experiencing certain diseases might be closer to what a cis woman experiences
than that of a cis man. It depends.
She also mentions that trans people are often at a disservice when it comes to accessing
healthcare because of assumptions made about their bodies and health risks. A trans man
might have a difficult time getting screened for cervical or breast cancer because of the
way assumptions may be made about his gender and how gendered healthcare and support systems
are, for example. Medical care that exacerbates gender dysphoria in trans people who are trying
to access it might make them less likely to seek that care, and feel less safe and accepted
when they do.
MS research that acknowledges how trans people might be specifically vulnerable to illness
is better research than that which pretends trans women will experience it just like cis
men and trans men will experience it just like cis women. So Rowling’s weird concern
trolling about MS research, especially when she claims to have done all this research
on trans issues herself, doesn’t help people with MS. It just antagonizes trans people.
The next thing she talks about is this rant about how young girls are being tricked into
thinking they’re trans because they just don’t like being women, and how if she was
a young girl she might have thought she was trans because she didn’t like how she was
treated for being a woman. Her worry is that girls will think they’re trans men and then
detransition, having damaged their bodies irreparably in the process. There’s also
this weird line implying that if you’re autistic you’re somehow less able to know
you’re trans, which cool.
Once again, thanks to Andrew James Carter for finding this source, but detransition
rates are very, very small. 1/162 trans people, or 0.6%, detransitioned in this study,
and these findings are consistent with other studies too.
As well, most people who have detransitioned
talk about having done so not because they regret transitioning and don't think they're really trans, but because they experienced
so much transphobia that they were essentially forced back into the closet.
Many of these people even retransition later. These are from
actual studies, while her claim that 60 to 90% of dysphoric teens will grow out
of it isn’t sourced anywhere. Because of course it isn’t.
It’s interesting to me that JK Rowling talks all about social pressure and about how when
you’re mistreated for being a woman, it might make you not want to be one any more,
but is unwilling or unable to apply that same logic of how social pressure works to people
who detransition.
Then this bit about how weird it is that *entire friend groups* are made up of trans people,
and how this *must* mean social pressure and echo chambers are turning people trans, instead
of like… trans people finding each other and being friends with people who share common
experiences with them, especially given how shitty cis people can be to them.
There’s also this lovely paragraph, where she talks about how we live in these horribly
regressive times, and then talks about Trump, inceIs… and trans activists. Because someone
who doesn’t have a problem with trans people would definitely equate all these different
groups. In particular, she refers to them all as “men across the political spectrum”
telling women they need to sit down and shut up or else.
It’s this frustrating desire to claim she’s being persecuted for being a woman and not
criticized for saying bigoted things, when many women- like me, like the thousands of
trans women in her mentions who have tried very politely to explain to her why she’s
saying wrong and harmful things- have been part of this from the start. This is, honestly,
a common TERF tactic, and it’s one that very much serves as evidence that she doesn’t
view the trans women who criticize her as women.
Once again, she goes on this weird “sex is real” strawman, where she claims women
get called transphobes if they don’t “accept and admit that there is no material difference
between trans women and themselves”. This, to me, signifies that she’s never spoken
to a trans person in her life and really listened, because this just… isn’t true. Of course
there are differences in the experiences of trans women and cis women. I’ve never met
a trans woman who claims their lives and experiences aren’t materially different
from one another. No one f*cking says this. Trans women and cis women DO share many common
experiences, but of course those experiences are not identical. This is true for any group
of women. I have a different experience as a white woman than many black women have.
I have a different experience as a bi woman than many straight women have. I have a different
experience as a Canadian woman than many women from France or Pakistan or Australia or Zambia
have. That doesn’t mean we aren’t all women, and this weird made-up strawman JK
Rowling has created where you aren’t allowed to talk about differing experiences or even
physiology is just nonsense.
Then we get to this part that just… really upset me, to be perfectly honest. And it’s
that she uses the fact that she’s been assaulted by a cis man order to justify the exclusion
of trans women from women’s spaces. She claims that, while she supports the rights
of trans people and wants them to be safe, allowing self-identified trans women into
women’s bathrooms puts “natal women and girls” in danger. I’ve already talked
about how nowhere in the world, at no point in history, have trans self-identification
laws been used as justifications for men to claim to be trans to legally attack women, nor have
trans women done so. The fact that she’s using such a horrible experience as justification
to further marginalize trans women and support policies that place them in danger is just
really gross to me.
And then she just does the same thing again that she’s been doing. She talks about the
harassment she’s received and glosses over the thousands of people trying their hardest
to explain their lived experiences to someone who refuses to listen, talks about how justified
it is that women are “terrified of trans activists”, and then claims that the only
people who aren’t supportive of spaces excluding trans women are “privileged or lucky enough
never to have come up against male violence or s*xual assault, and who’ve never troubled
to educate themselves on how prevalent it is.”
And then she’s done.
All of the arguments she’s used to prop up her points about how she’s not transphobic,
she’s just worried about the risk of Fake Trans People Using
Self-ID Laws To Attack Women, are made up of lies, half-truths, and misleading statements,
all used to downplay the risks to trans women of excluding them from proper spaces and fabricate
a risk to cis women and girls where there is none. From her outright misrepresentation
of the Maya Forstater case to her fawning praise over a woman she claims had no issues
with trans people while calling them perverted men to her disregarding increased health risks
to trans people in order to fallaciously claim trans people pose a risk to MS research,
her entire statement is a transphobia pill she’s coated with lies and platitudes about
how at least she doesn’t want trans people to literally die in order to make it go down
easier.
God, I’m frustrated.
And a lot of people are. The things she’s saying, the way she’s lied to justify increased
stigmatization of trans people… it’s horrible, and the fact that it takes way more energy
to debunk her lies than it does to tell them means that a lot of people might see her statements
and believe them, leading to an increase in anti-trans rhetoric that causes genuine danger
to trans people’s lives. And a lot of people who loved her stories and grew up with them
and learned important lessons from them are so justifiably hurt by this. Having followed
her forays into the TERF world for a while, this isn’t new information to me, but even
I feel incredibly hurt on behalf of the trans people I care about at seeing the lengths
she’s recently gone to to misrepresent and vilify trans activists. I know the pain that
many trans people in my life feel is much greater.
So, where does this leave us? A lot of people are justifiably upset. She made this snide
comment about how she must be on her fourth or fifth “cancellation” by now, which
is really just great evidence that when rich and powerful people complain about cancel
culture, they’re really complaining about nothing, because she’s very clearly been
doing fine five cancellations later.
But anyway, there’s this tough question now of how to approach the Potter series.
Just under two years ago, I made my JK Rowling and Authorial Intent video, where I talked
about how even though Rowling was one of the main reasons the culture of transformative
works is able to be as robust as it is now, she’s also recently acted in complete opposition
to this. From making weird announcements about her characters, trying to retroactively claim
brownie points for depicting gay characters and characters with HIV despite the fact that
none of it was present in her original work, and arguing with fans about how to interpret
her characters, she seems to despise the idea that her works might belong to more than just
her. I honestly wish I hadn’t been as charitable to her as I had been in that video, and if
I were making it now, which I guess I kinda am, I probably would have been a lot more
critical.
I also made the case for the fact that what the author intended shouldn’t be the end-all-be-all
for how we interpret fiction. Once an author puts their work out there, they lose the right
to be the sole authority on what we can take from that work, or how we should feel about
it, or what interpretations we can draw. And, I guess in line with that philosophy, I’ve
seen a growing number of posts and tweets saying stuff like “let’s all just disown
JK Rowling as the author of Harry Potter” and “Hatsune Miku wrote it” and “it’s
authorless”. So I want to talk a little bit about that, and, I guess, separating the
art from the artist.
Liking things whose creators pretty much suck is always a tough spot. My first brush with
it was at about 12, reading and loving Ender’s Game and then learning the author would prefer
a world where I didn’t exist, but it’s a pretty common thing to have happen, especially
among fans of less recent works. I mean, HP Lovecraft was ridiculously racist, even for
the standards of his time, and it’s hard to watch a movie by Kubrick or Hitchcock or
Tarantino without worrying about how their actors were treated on-set. Which prompts
a lot of arguments about whether we can separate the art from the artist, and if so, in what
contexts? Does it matter whether the artist is still alive, and if so, if they’re still
profiting from their works? Does it matter to what degree the art itself is imbued with
the artist’s own experiences and perspectives?
This debate didn’t begin with Rowling, and it’s been raging on and on about all kinds
of different art and artists, with some people decrying the implication that art exists in
its own apolitical realm that isn’t in any way affected by the societal forces that helped
create it, and others arguing that art doesn’t only belong to its creators, but is instead
given value by the people who consume and help shape it.
In particular, some people are really worried by the idea that we ought to just throw out
all art made by a bad creator and that it’s impossible to find any benefit or value from
it. I mean, virtually every artist or author who died more than 50 years ago comes off
as a pretty terrible person by the standards of today, so does that mean we’re not allowed
to derive any value from the things they created any more?
Certainly, the world of Harry Potter is still meaningful to me. It’s something I grew
up with, and it’s something that fans of the series have been able to build on to create
incredible works, whether that’s art or fanfiction or just analysis of the mechanics
in the series that end up being much more interesting than the original books. It’s
certainly not up to me whether to dictate whether people are ‘allowed’ to like it
and consume content relating to it, both as someone who isn’t trans and thus isn’t
targeted by Rowling’s rhetoric and also as someone who simply can’t control what
people’s tastes are.
That being said, I do think this push to essentially claim that her works were created by Hatsune
Miku, or were authorless, or just generally don’t have any relation to her as a person
is certainly… misguided at best.
So, okay. This whole Hatsune Miku thing originally came not from criticism of Rowling at all,
but of Minecraft. Markus Persson, or Notch, is the creator of the game Minecraft, but
has by now completely divested from the company and isn’t involved with it any more. He
later made a number of negative comments, both about trans people and about people of
colour.
He called feminism a disease, attacked Zoe Quinn, and called trans folks mentally ill
among other things. As a result, about a year ago, the account MikuMiku ebooks, which is
sort of a parody account claiming to be run by virtual pop star Hatsune Miku, tweeted
“I created Minecraft”. People immediately loved the joke, both because they wanted to
distance a creation they liked from Notch and because the concept of a virtual Japanese
pop diva making Minecraft was just very funny to people, and continued to keep up the bit.
Since then, people have been using “Miku created it” as a standin when talking about
pieces of media with harmful creators. Miku created Tesla cars. Miku created Cthulhu.
Miku created the bi flag. And, of course, moe voice synthesizer Hatsune Miku created
Harry Potter.
I think the intent here is often some degree of reclamation. I don’t think there exist
any of us who only love works made by the best and most morally upstanding people, largely
because an “unproblematic” person doesn’t exist. That being said, there are definitely
different degrees of bad, and someone with one of the largest platforms in the world
who lives in a literal castle and has a billion dollars and can do whatever she wants instead
devoting her time and resources to making things up about trans people to frame them
as dangerous predators is pretty egregious. I understand the desire to want to like her
work without framing enjoying it as liking *her*, so I think the “Miku made Harry Potter”
thing is both an attempt to reclaim her work from her and to distance her from Harry Potter
in order to guiltlessly continue to enjoy it.
And while I certainly don’t think feeling horribly guilty about enjoying something is
a productive emotion, I do think the attempt to divorce this work from its author isn’t
as helpful as it might appear to be. Because while Minecraft was mostly just a game about
building things with blocks that isn’t really impacted by the fact that its creator hates
trans people, the issues with Harry Potter unfortunately run a lot deeper than just JK
Rowling’s Twitter account.
To be clear, I’m not saying this to guilt or condemn anyone who likes these books. I
still like these books, despite their pernicious content, and I think most people
like works that have a lot of problems with them. Engaging with things critically absolutely
doesn’t have to mean beating yourself up for liking things with problems, but it does
mean not sweeping those problems under the rug and instead directly acknowledging them
and thinking about how they impacted these works’ content.
I talked about some of these things in my earlier JK Rowling video, and to be clear,
I’m not the first person to have pointed out… pretty much anything here. It’s all
been observed by tons of people in the past, and none of this starts or ends with one person
identifying any particular issues. That being said, JK Rowling’s ideology isn’t something
that exists completely separately from her fiction, but is instead something that’s
imbued within it.
So, for example, take the hook-nosed banking goblins who control all the money in the Potterverse
and who are illustrated with striking similarity to antisemitic caricatures. These things gain
a lot more additional context when you realize they’re written by a vocal supporter of
a woman who claimed that trans rights were the result of lobbying attempts from Jewish
billionaires. Or, say, the character Rita Skeeter, who is described as having fake-looking
hair and makeup, along with “large, mannish hands”, who magically and illegally transforms
her form in order to spy on the children in the book. These things gain a lot more additional
context when you realize she thinks there’s a risk of trans people transforming their
bodies in order to spy on girls in locker rooms.
Or, god, there are tons of examples of issues within the books that speak to deep problems
besides transphobia, whether it’s the race of slaves who love being slaves and are resistant
to any attempts to change that, that time she wrote about Indigenous people as a magical
monolith instead of groups of hundreds of different tribes with their own separate mythos
and beliefs, or the time she decided to claim werewolves were a metaphor for HIV and then
make her werewolf characters mostly predators who tried to infect children.
This isn’t intended to be some kind of “your fave is problematic” style callout of the
books where I just list every single bad thing about them all in one place to condemn it-
I don’t think that’s a useful way to criticize things, and if I did want to do that, my list
would be a lot longer than a few items. My point here isn’t “these are the worst
books on the planet”, but that her ideology doesn’t start and stop with the things she
tweets, or the things she believes in her private life.
They instead permeate the kind of books she writes, both in more direct and in more subtle
ways. I talked on Twitter about how Rowling views the house system probably signifies
to some degree how she feels about categorizations, which may bleed into how she perceives gender.
So, to pretend they exist as completely neutral works separate from the experiences and ideology
which produced them ignores the fact that these books have Rowling all over them.
I say this, again, not to moralize about what people are allowed to like, but to acknowledge
that these books, while fans have created amazing works spanning from them, at their
core can’t be divorced from how they were made or who made them, and when we’re engaging
in criticism of them or of Rowling, it’s important to keep the fact that she’s an
inextricable part of them in mind. So when I see people claiming “oh, Hatsune Miku
made them” or that they just sprung fully formed from the earth, what I see is moreso
an attempt to pretend Rowling’s biases don’t exist, to exclude them from the process of
critically engaging with what we consume.
I don’t personally think this is the most compelling argument against engaging with
the stories, since she’s already literally a billionaire at this point, but it is worth
mentioning that as much as we try to erase her from her own creation, she’s still actively
profiting from people buying Potter books and merchandise and watching her movies and
going to her theme parks. As much as we act like she exists completely separately from
the things she creates, she benefits from us pretending she didn’t write them as a
way to avoid criticising those books possibly more than anyone else.
So… where *do* we go from here? Once again, I’m not a member of the group most hurt
by her, nor am I in any position to tell people what they’re allowed to like, so I’m certainly
not going to make any kind of definitive, sweeping statement about people’s interests
or how folks should be “allowed” to engage with her works. But I do think, regardless
of how we do, that it needs to be done with empathy, and it needs to be done with a broad
understanding of who she is, and how her creations are impacted by her own value system.
The author is dead insofar as she’s not the only person who gets to decide how her
works get interpreted. And for people who still wish they got their Hogwarts acceptance
letters wishing they could have gone to a kinder and more accepting place, reimagining
it as a place that would welcome them and their friends can probably be really meaningful.
But it’s also important to engage critically with the media that we consume, and that means
acknowledging that fiction- not just Harry Potter, but all fiction- didn’t come from
nowhere.
They were produced by human beings, with their own morals
and values and biases, and while every book isn’t a manifesto of the author’s views,
those biases can often seep into the books themselves. This is particularly important
to acknowledge when it comes to stories for children, because the kinds of things books
tacitly or explicitly endorse can stick with you for a long time.
Books with subtly negative values steeped throughout them are, I think, a little bit
like wine. It’s okay to consume it, and it’s okay to enjoy it. But you should understand
exactly what it is you’re consuming, and what parts of it aren’t so great. And consuming
it uncritically, while refusing to admit to or acknowledge its bad parts, is not very
good for you.
In conclusion: Stan Percy Jackson.
I talked earlier about the pros and cons of having a platform, and one of the things about
having one on YouTube is that there are videos I’d love to make that I can’t make on
that platform, either because of copyright or monetization issues. So, for example, I
love debate, and I made this video called Debater Theater about how learning to form
better arguments that use popular movies and cool pop culture moments as examples.
The bad news is that it’s not available on YouTube. The good news is that it’s available
on my streaming service Nebula, which is a collaborative effort between me and many other
creators like Lindsay Ellis, Hbomberguy, Tierzoo, and many others. Making videos for Nebula
is really fun, and when you sign up for it, you also get early access to my YouTube videos.
What’s extra cool is that when you sign up to Curiositystream, you also get your subscription
to Nebula included! Curiositysteam is a really cool streaming service full of thousands of
amazing documentaries and educational videos, and I always come out of it feeling as though
I’ve learned something. You can get unlimited access for just $2.99 a month, and when you
sign up using my code, you also get access to Nebula included! Just visit curiositystream.com/sarahz
and use my code “SarahZ” at signup! That’s curiositystream.com/sarahz.
When you sign up for Curiositystream and Nebula, it not only helps me because my ability to
make videos is supported, it not only helps you because you get access to exclusive and
early access content from me and many others, but it also helps the entire educational creator
community by giving us a space to make videos like Debater Theater. Thank you so much!
In addition, I've also linked in my description a number of great trans creators who I think are worth checking out.
And I would encourage you to watch some of their stuff, because it's really good.
In addition to
all my patrons, I’d like to specially thank Rachel Riley, Niamh Breslin, Bekey, and “Bomfs,
of Bomfscorp Limited” for joining my $20+ tier! Welcome!