Hello, my dudes, my name is Tiffany!
Welcome back to my series, Internet Analysis, where I like to research and discuss things
relevant to social issues and media.
Today's video is a light-hearted one, because I need one, don't we all?
Last year, I made a video about season one of the Netflix reality show The Circle (the
us version at least.)
And this year, of course, I watched season two of The Circle (it just had its finale
last week) and there were enough interesting things to discuss, so I thought we'll make
it a tradition, we'll come back and we'll chat about it!
Nathan and I binged the season as the episodes premiered- and by the way, we're engaged!
I'm not currently wearing my ring because it's being resized right now, but yes, big
news!
We're very happy, we recorded an episode for my podcast all about the proposal, if you'd
like to listen.
but anyway, we watched it ourselves, and then I rewatched the entire season again to take
notes for this video, you're welcome.
So first, i'll give a brief intro to the show, if you're unfamiliar, and I will be telling
you when the spoilers begin, in case you would like to watch the whole show and then come
back to this video.
This Circle is a reality TV game where each player lives in their own apartment and can
only contact other players through 'the Circle'.
It's basically a social media game, everyone creates a profile, either reflecting their
real self or playing as a catfish, they're all competing for a chance to win one hundred
thousand dollars.
Day-to-day, the players chat with each other...
"Circle, message...
What's up girly, how are you doing?
I love your profile picture!
#Bestfriendsforlife!
#Cantstopwontstop!"
Uh... smiley face emoji.
Send!
The chats are my favorite thing.
they try to build friendships and alliances.
there are also some activities and games for entertainment, but also to stir up some drama.
Often it's impossible to know what the truth is, or who is being genuine.
Throughout the game, players rate each other, the top rated players for each round are the
influencers, who get to pick who to block aka who gets kicked out of The Circle.
Before they leave forever, blocked players get to go visit one of the other players,
and obviously being visited can have a lot of benefits, because you can learn some secrets
or some valuable information.
Naturally, the other players are curious about who was visited, but it's best not to reveal
if you've been visited by someone, just because knowledge is power in this game, you can use
secrets to your advantage, everything is strategic.
The next day, after a blocking, all the players watch a video message from the blocked player,
and everyone finally gets to see if they were playing as themselves or a catfish.
They usually depart with some vaguely ominous message, like "don't trust anyone, people
are two-faced in here"...
So, let's meet the contestants: we have Savannah, an Instagram model from L.A. She wants to
show she's not just a pretty face, she's nerdy too.
Emily a tiny, cute sorority girl, who was actually played by Jack, an Astrophysics student.
Bryant, he is a new age spiritual hippie type, teaches breath work, all about light and love
and good vibes.
Trevor is a lovable, single dad from the Bronx, who was actually played by his wife, Deleesa.
Then, we have Terilisha, who majored in science and math, and now is a songwriter and actress.
Courtney is an entertainment host and digital content creator from Los Angeles, but in the
game, he's claiming to be a barista.
It's more low-key.
Chloe, who you may recognize from the Netflix show 'Too Hot To Handle', which I also made
a video about last year.
She is not from the US, but in both shows, she kind of presents herself as this like
ditzy, dumb character... she says she's not smart enough to play strategically, but we'll
see.
We have River, this young gay man with big hair, who is actually played by Lee, a 58
year old author.
Next we have Lance Bass, the NSYNC pop icon! played by his personal assistant, Lisa.
And Mitchell, do you guys remember Ed and Tammy from season one?
They're his family.
his whole shtick is that he's attractive, but he's actually a virgin.
*gasp!* And finally, we have Khat, who is a professional volleyball player, who hopes
to challenge stereotypes about black women.
But before we continue, let's give a shout out to today's sponsor: Function of Beauty.
Function of Beauty offers custom hair care, personalized for your hair type and goals.
You take their quick and easy quiz, my hair type is pretty straight, and my scalp is typically
on the dry side...
What are my hair goals?
Hydrate, increase volume, anti-frizz, and I chose a silicone free formula.
I chose the light mango fragrance, orange shampoo, pink conditioner, and of course,
my name is on the bottle.
There are also fragrance-free and dye-free options.
I also got a custom leave-in conditioner, which is great when my hair needs a little
extra love, or if I just want to have a little spa night with myself.
So, I've been using Function of Beauty since 2019, and my hair is pretty long now, but
I still only try to wash it about twice a week, and these bottles last me such a long
time.
Lately, people have been asking what my hair routine is, and I honestly like it to be very
low maintenance.
sometimes I style it for videos, but typically I just like a wash, condition, air dry situation,
easy.
But I've got to say, I love my hair right now, it looks and feels shiny and soft.
Function of Beauty's products have worked really well for me, I love that they are dermatologist
tested, I have sensitive skin so that's important, and also they are vegan and cruelty free!
You can get 20% off your first set with my link in the description.
Thank you so much, Function of Beauty!
Okay, so first let's talk logistics.
I don't know if this is especially because I studied film, but whenever I watch reality
shows, I just always want to know how things run, I want the behind the scenes info.
For example, the cameras in the bathrooms, hello?
I learned that apparently all you have to do is let the producers know that you got
to go in there, and they will turn the cameras away, you can leave your mic outside of the
room for your privacy and decency, that's great...
And also, this thing that bothered me, every time a blocked person is going to visit someone,
there are reaction shots of every single person acting like their door just got knocked on,
but only one person gets visited, and the simple answer is that the producers actually
do knock on all of the doors, just to get those reaction shots, so, question answered.
Anyway, I actually sent in an application to 'The Circle' last year when I was making
my first video.
Did not hear back, unfortunately, but I did read a little bit about the process and what
to expect, and I think it would be pretty hard for me to be in this type of isolation,
but also I am an introvert, and I do love talking to myself, so I feel like I'd be okay.
For season two, obviously, because of Covid, there was a quarantine process, so every player
had to be in a two-week quarantine.
They were tested every three days, to keep the production as safe as possible, which
is good, and throughout the process of the show, you obviously can't have your phone
or other personal electronics, because they want to protect all the secrets, and not have
anything leaked to the outside world.
But, during quarantine, they did let the players have a dedicated Netflix phone, so that they
could communicate with their families, so that's nice.
Then, in any in between times between, like, quarantine, and actually being in the Circle
apartments, you're in "hiding" with a Netflix chaperone who keeps an eye on you, makes sure
you've got all your stuff, but you aren't interacting with the outside world.
Again, as far as the actual game goes, I think it's about two to three weeks long.
The players can have any food they request, they just give the producers a grocery list.
the production team tries to keep everyone occupied with books, puzzles... otherwise
they have the gym room, just like in season one, and then a yoga room, which I think is
new for season two...
And the players can't use their balconies for fresh air, because there's too much chance
that they could interact somehow, but they can get fresh air on the roof, and go into
the hot tub, if they desire.
Every time the players are walking around hallways and stuff, the producers ensure that
nobody is going to run into each other, players are always escorted.
Again, I don't know if this is interesting to anyone else, but this is what i'm always
thinking about when I watch these shows.
maybe I should be a reality TV producer? we'll see.
Let's quickly discuss some of the strategies that we see in The Circle, obviously, one
major one, is to be nice to everyone, you want to make friends, say whatever you can
to get people to like you, even if you have to be fake nice.
Another strategy is to stay average, don't make any waves, you want to be friendly enough
to where people like you, but not too popular to where you'll be a threat to anyone.
Naturally, of course, people try to get close to other people, right before ratings, which
is definitely a last-ditch effort, but an attempt nonetheless.
And obviously, in this season, we have the whole "come in as someone notable, a celebrity"
strategy.
Chloe from Too Hot To Handle and Lance Bass.
Chloe is believable because she's not, like, a superstar.
she's a Netflix alumni, it just kind of adds up, you know?
Reality stars popping up in a lot of shows is not surprising.
Lance Bass, on the other hand, unlikely that someone of his level would want to be on a
show like this, but maybe Lisa was just hoping that people would get starstruck and not think
too deeply about it.
And, of course, we have the classic strategy of flirting and romance, which we will see
a bit of throughout this season, very intriguing...
Let's talk ratings, quickly.
Obviously, when you're rating each player, you can either genuinely rate everyone based
on who you actually like, and support... who you think is the most deserving of a top spot,
or you can rate strategically, to try to knock out people that you think are popular or a
threat to you. and being too popular, especially too early on, is a threat.
If you don't have enough alliances built up at that point, people will rate you low just
to keep you down.
So again, that's why being kind of a middle-of-the-road average player can be very helpful, especially
at the start of the game.
Let's jump into what actually happened...
I'm just gonna talk about all of it.
First, the "girl gang" alliance... in episode 1, a girl group is formed with all the gals,
Emily, Savannah, Chloe, and Terilisha.
And in the first ratings, Savannah and Terilisha are rated the highest, so they are the influencers.
Immediately, they are given the chance to save one player each from the blockings.
Terilisha picks Emily, and we expect Savannah to pick Chloe, because, Girl Gang, hello!
But instead she picks Trevor, because they bonded about being raised by single parents,
but that's a signal of a big betrayal to her alliance.
This is literally, like, round one, she's already broken her word, then in the actual
blocking ceremony, she kind of hesitates again to save Chloe, which threatens the alliance
and makes her seem even more untrustworthy.
Like, she literally promised she would have Chloe's back, and then she's sitting there,
like, I don't know.
So, this creates a conflict between Savannah and Terilisha.
The first player blocked is Bryant, who's honestly pretty irrelevant.
I mean, he he seems like a nice guy, but I also can't take his shtick seriously.
He may be purely genuinely love and light and all of that, but to me, it just reads
as a little bit much, and again, I don't think there was much of a connection formed with
the other players, enough to save him at that point.
So then, after blocking Bryant, everyone goes into the Circle chat, the group chat, and
Savannah says that she's devastated to see him go... and Terilisha is like, 'well, I
didn't want to see him go'.
So, is Savannah being fake right now, is she trying to misrepresent what happened?
Savannah says "it was a hard decision, but it was a joint decision," and the feud is
on...
So, we're getting into the game now, and there are a couple of activities throughout the
season that do make a big impact.
The first one is Truth or Dare. simple!
Obviously, the questions are asked to stir the pot, the producers want to provoke some
drama, expose alliances, force you to admit who you like or dislike the most, very tricky.
And obviously, as a player, you don't want to reveal this information, you don't want
people to know who you're close to, but you gotta answer the question.
Terilisha is asked who is the biggest game player in the Circle, and she says Savannah.
and then of course, Savannah is asked which player do you trust the least, and she says
Terilisha.
Savannah insists that nobody can trust Terilisha, she'll say one thing and do another, so now
all of the players are pretty skeptical and doubting of Savannah and Terilisha.
This conflict is bad for both of them, even though they keep trying to prove themselves
to the other players, and make the other person look bad.
so this becomes a major conflict that still is not resolved by the end.
Team Terilisha and Team Savannah! to be honest, I have to be Team Terilisha.
I feel like there is a lot of miscommunication, but if you go back to the inciting incident,
Savannah simply broke the alliance and that made her seem untrustworthy.
I don't blame Terilisha for doubting her after that point.
but also, can I just say, the entire premise of this fight really doesn't make any sense,
because the influencers were given the power to protect someone from the blocking, but
they were the ones doing the blocking.
So giving someone, like, a save, is kind of useless, because they're going to be the ones
choosing who to block anyway, do you know what I mean?
Like, it would be different if two people could save two people and then other people
were doing the blocking, but it's the same people.
Still, I don't understand why Savannah wouldn't have just been loyal to Girl Gang.
It was week one, just protect your girlies and then just choose not to vote out Trevor?
Maybe I'm overthinking it, but this was a big deal.
So then in the next rating, Chloe and Emily are the top rated, so they're the influencers,
and Savannah and Terilisha are now in the bottom two, because clearly people don't like
the drama.
And again, the situation made both of them look bad.
I think people just got bad vibes.
So the second player blocked is Savannah.
she came in too hot, too fiery.
I feel like they could have fixed things by just talking to the whole Circle chat, and
being like, 'hey, I never meant to threaten the Girl Gang alliance.'
I don't know if everyone knew about the alliance though, I don't know, I feel like there was
a way that she could have fixed it, but I don't think she helped herself.
So when Savannah is blocked, she gets to go visit someone.
She's supposed to choose who she thinks will win, she chooses to see Courtney.
then there's a twist called 'The Inner Circle', and the reveal of the Joker.
So, because Courtney was chosen by Savannah, he gets to go to the Inner Circle and be the
Joker, which gives him the power to chat anonymously with two incoming players before they join
the full gang.
Gang? game? game...
I really like that The Circle did this for season two, because they need a lot of these
new twists and different things to keep the game fresh season to season.
It keeps all the players on their toes, and you never really know what to expect if things
get changed up, so I'm a fan.
So then, two new players join: Khat and Mitchell.
and Courtney, playing as the anonymous Joker, is in the chat with them, and he's trying
to sound like Emily, and he takes shots at the other girls, Terilisha and Chloe, to encourage
the new players to mistrust all the other girls in the game.
It's shady, but of course, that's the purpose of what the Joker is.
You get this power, this anonymous power, you're gonna take advantage of it and try
to knock out whoever's not in your alliance.
Then Courtney, as the Joker, gets to pick who one of the next influencers will be, and
he picks River.
Then, in the rating, Courtney himself actually gets voted into the other top spot.
Then Courtney and River choose to block Terilisha.
This is a bummer, I think she was gone too soon, and I think this was an instance of,
again, being too popular in the beginning.
Savannah and Terilisha, the first two influencers, very quickly fall to the bottom, and then
get blocked back to back...
And just in general, being an influencer can backfire, because while you have power, the
decisions that you are forced to make can make you some enemies, because the other influencer
might tell people what you thought of them, or who you considered blocking.
And then again, because you're rated highly, one round people might rate you lower next
time, because people knew that you were popular, and now they see you as a threat and want
to knock you out, so, dangerous game.
A next good challenge activity is the 'mannequin challenge', hosted by Jonathan Van Ness from
Queer Eye.
This was a cute little challenge, um, and it was pretty inconsequential, until Jack,
playing as Emily, completely wrecked his mannequin.
It's a simple makeup challenge, and this man did not even know how to do basic foundation.
and this challenge single-handedly exposed Emily as a catfish, because everyone could
just tell these makeup skills were so atrocious, so tragic, that it was obvious that Emily
was probably not the young sorority girl that she was claiming to be. and this was so sad,
because Jack actually cried.
I felt so bad watching him, like, start to sob, and he was hiding in his little hooded
jacket...
It does kind of suck to have one challenge kind of individually targeted at you, not
that I think the producers knew that he would fail, but they probably thought he might,
so again, stirring the pot.
It sucks to be you, but it happens.
Then we had another little game called 'Don't At Me', where each player could ask another
player an anonymous question, and someone asked Emily 'what are your top five makeup
brands?'
again stoking that- that weakness, and Jack goes, 'Oh, I have a smart idea, I'm gonna
get the makeup from that other challenge and just read out whatever's on those labels',
and he reads out the most random shit, that again, exposes that he's probably not a young
girl who actually likes makeup.
he's like "Laneige" ... And then he says 'Collection Co', everyone's
like 'what the hell is that?' and again, I'm like, Jack, I understand that you don't personally
wear makeup, but you exist in the world, and you can't name five makeup brands?
Like, have you ever watched a commercial?
I don't feel that bad for him, you know?
In the next ratings, Chloe and Khat are rated the highest, but this time the influencers
don't get to choose who to block.
automatically, the bottom two players are blocked, which are Lance and Emily.
So, at this point Lance Bass -- "Lance Bass" -- has made no impression.
I think some people didn't even recognize him as Nsync's pop icon, and why do I keep
saying it like that?
'Nsync, 'In-Sync'...
Some people didn't recognize him, other people just assumed he'd be a catfish, because he's
probably too famous to play the game, which is accurate, and he was just boring.
I don't think Lisa played Lance very well (sorry Lisa) and then Emily obviously got
wrecked by those makeup challenges back to back, and people were just betting that she
was a catfish.
Then our next fun big twist, the two blocked players secretly get to stay as a new player.
Lisa and Jack, as Lance and Emily, go to do the ceremonial, you know, go visit a player
before you leave thing.
But then they end up in the same apartment, and it's revealed that they have a second
chance to stay, as a new catfish working together.
Classic, fun, who would expect it?
I don't know.
So, of course they agree, and they unite as the new player, John, who is this old man,
big mustache, his occupation is psychic, which is supposed to be a little haha, because they
obviously know information about the players that they shouldn't know.
They decide to make him a 64-year-old gay man.
Anyway, as Emily and Lance are blocked, they of course leave their goodbye videos, and
it is revealed to everyone that they were both catfishes, so everyone's like alright,
peace out, bye, we got 'em!
And naturally, everyone asks 'so who did Emily and Lance visit?' and everyone denies it,
because no one was actually visited.
But then, everyone's suspicious, because someone was supposed to be visited, and Khat specifically
thinks that Chloe is lying about not being visited, she thinks that Chloe was visited
by Emily.
Khat makes the big mistake of going to River and Courtney and saying she thinks Chloe's
lying, but she doesn't know that Chloe, Courtney and River are in an alliance called the Cardashians
(with a C) ... and that move is actually Khat's downfall, because she was just messing with
the wrong person.
The next rating, Chloe and Trevor are influencers, and they vote to block Khat, which again,
sucks.
One wrong move, one little slip-up, that can be it, everyone can turn on you.
And here's the thing, there's definitely a bias, or better chances for the original players,
because obviously, if you're one of the players who comes in a little later, you're coming
in when there's already groups and alliances formed, it's hard to make your way in there
and get people to trust you.
So, I feel for the new players, they're at a disadvantage.
But yeah, to go after Chloe specifically, who is one of the most popular people in the
Circle, was just not a good move.
Then we have another little activity, an award ceremony, as we're nearing the end of the
game. and they're all kind of being nice and voting each other, different little superlatives.
then we get best performance, which is obviously supposed to be, like, you're fake, you're
not being yourself, and Mitchell gets it, and he takes this very badly.
He had a very snarky reply, instead of like, pretending to laugh it off.
I understand being kind of hurt by that, but you got to be careful how you reply, as always,
in the Circle.
Then the next award is the kiss ass, and again Mitchell gets it with River, and River tries
to laugh it off, but Mitchell is again even more bitter, which is just so bad.
His responses in this game alone probably are the reason that he ends up being voted
out, which sucks, but also, he was clearly unpopular enough to be voted for those awards
in the first place, so ... sorry, Mitchell, you were doing well for a minute!
Then we have a segment where the players all talk about what they would do with the prize
money, if they won.
Chloe reveals that her family has had a history of addiction issues, her father is in recovery,
and has a charity to help other families.
I don't know if she mentioned it in the show, but one of her brothers actually died from
addiction, so this is obviously very close to her heart, and this did make me feel more
sympathy toward Chloe, because honestly, when she first joined, I was like, this is unfair,
she was already famous, pretty famous, from Too Hot to Handle.
She must have already had like, a million followers at least on Instagram, so it's like,
Chloe, babes, you can just continue being an Instagram model, and make your coin.
So it was nice to see a little bit more of a humanizing moment for her, to talk about
her backstory and her family, and yeah, that was a powerful little segment.
Next, we had a messages from home segment, which I literally -- I cried so hard the first
time I watched it.
The other day, when I was watching these clips again, I cried!
I just- I don't know if it's that I cry when I see people cry, that's probably part of
it, but also, it's just sweet, and you know family missing each other, and talking about
how much they love each other, it just always gets my heart strings, you know?
Really sweet, really nice...
We're making our way! in the next ratings, the top person becomes the secret super influencer,
meaning that they alone get to decide who the final blocked person is, who doesn't get
to make it to the finale, and again, it's all a secret, so it can't really bite them
in the ass.
And the top rated person is River, so Lee playing as River is sitting there, and he's
like, 'ah, should I play with my heart, should I play with my head, should I be strategic?'
and he decides to block Mitchell, which is kind of random, because honestly, Mitchell
was probably the least threatening person, because he was literally just roasted by everyone.
he was probably going to be rated low anyway, so I don't know why, of all people, he would
vote Mitchell.
I feel like he could have voted out someone way more popular if he wanted to really increase
his chances of winning, but I feel like he ended up voting with his heart more, and just
wanted to get rid of somebody that he wasn't close with.
Finally, we've reached the finale.
By this point, Chloe has fallen for Trevor.
So, remember when I talked about romance and stuff?
Basically, way back, Mitchell was kind of flirting with Emily, and then it was revealed
that Emily was Jack, so you were catfished.
But the whole time, Chloe and Trevor had this thing, obviously Deleesa just played along
with it, because it was advantageous for her, for Trevor to have that strong alliance.
and they were both very likable players the whole time, so that alliance was very powerful.
So in the finale, the players finally get to go meet in person, which is always so stressful
and nerve-wracking.
Chloe goes to the room first, she's waiting there, she's like, I'm gonna meet, you know,
the man of my dreams, and in walks in his wife, Deleesa! and this reveal was slightly
painful and awkward.
But also, I feel like they got over it quickly, and they were able to just enjoy getting to
know each other.
I love when people walk in, everyone's always like, 'wait, who are you?' because it's like,
either you recognize them, or you're like, 'who the fuck are you even playing, what's
going on here?'
Love it.
So then Courtney comes in, River comes in, but it's actually Lee, and everyone's like,
'what?', and then Lisa, who played as Lance comes in, and everyone's like 'who the hell
is this?' and then Jack, aka Emily, comes in, and they're like, 'what's going on here??
and then they realize that Lisa and Jack were together playing as John.
Wow, that was probably very disappointing, because I feel like everyone was looking forward
to meeting John, you know, the like, low-key Santa, psychic old man?
And then it was just Lisa and Jack again, they're like, hmm, first of all, you got a
second chance, that's interesting, and also, you're not our favorite old man, but they
seem to have a good time together.
Such a dramatic finale episode! then they moved to like, a stage, and we have the host,
Michelle Buteau, who's hilarious, I do actually laugh at her commentary throughout the episodes.
Michelle talks to all the contestants and asks them some questions before the final
reveal of who wins the hundred thousand dollars!
All of the blocked players are sitting together, and there is still beef, palpable tension
between Savannah and Terilisha.
I mean, to be honest, what has it been, like, a week or two?
So it makes sense that things haven't been fixed.
so that was awkward.
And my favorite little moment is when Khat and Mitchell just kind of look at each other
and like, clink their drinks, and they're like, you know, just sipping, listening to
the arguments... and still Bryant is completely irrelevant.
I'm sorry, he was blocked first, we only got to see him for like, a minute, but he was
just not an impactful player, so sorry.
Then we get to the very last ratings, who will win the prize money?
In fifth place, we have John.
Bye, catfish.
In fourth place, we have River, aka Lee.
Sorry Lee, bye.
Third place, we have Courtney.
I guess I should talk about the characters a little bit, the contestants.
Now, here's the thing, tangent ... throughout the game, a lot of people throw out these
accusations of like, 'oh, so and so is a game player', and it's like, okay, well, first
of all, we are playing a game, this is a game show, it's a reality TV game show with a cash
prize, it's a game! it's the epitome of a game! so everyone is a game player, but game
player has this negative connotation of like, oh, you're cheating and you're lying, you're
doing whatever it takes to win.
When, again, that's what most people are doing, and if you're not, then you're not being strategic
and you're not gonna win, you know?
So, um, yeah, throughout the game it's like, oh, 'so and so is a game player', and I've
gotta say, I think in terms of actual gameplay, I think Courtney was the best game player.
And I don't mean that in a shady way, though Courtney did have some shady moves.
Courtney got to be the Joker, and that was a very powerful influential thing, and then
while he was the Joker, he tried to get rid of all the girls, including Chloe, and then
later on ends up in a close alliance with Chloe and River, so it's like, interesting...
but I feel like Courtney just has that kind of funny personality, that can get away with
being a little more of a game player.
And I at least like that Courtney was never, like, fake nice, I don't think.
I think he was pretty honest.
By the way, after the game, I saw people, like, still hating on other players because
they didn't like how they played the game, and people get mad at players for lying, or
being shady, or talking behind people's back.
It's like, dude, that's literally the game,.
You can try to be honest and genuine in the Circle, but the point of the game is to do
whatever you can to win... and it's hard to know to what extent does someone's behavior
in a game like this actually represent their true morals and character?
Like, don't waste your time hating on reality TV contestants, in this situation, for this
game specifically.
like, nothing that occurs throughout the duration of the Circle is actually or should actually
be taken personally, because you literally don't know each other as people yet, until
you meet in person, and you can talk it out and get to know them, and make judgments of
their actual personality or whatever.
But like, the behavior within the Circle is so fabricated and so detached from reality,
that I don't think we should use it to actually make judgments of people.
Then we get to our top two, Chloe and Trevor.
Wow, how romantic, the, um, alliance, the couple that could have been, if Trevor weren't
a catfish being played by his own wife.
I am glad that it ended up being down to Chloe and Trevor, because Chloe was rated very highly,
I think she was in influencer the most times out of everyone, so clearly, she was very
popular.
I did really enjoy watching Chloe throughout the show, and she is genuinely funny.
She said some stupid shit that would just make me laugh out loud, because I could not
believe it...
"I wonder how many bubbles are actually in this bath?"
"Muah! oh my god. you can see my nose and my chin!"
and then Trevor played by Deleesa...
I mean, I just, I like the way that Trevor was always kind of a middle of the road player,
like, always rated, like, third or fourth.
But everyone liked Trevor, and they wanted to believe that he was this good guy, single
dad, this loving figure.
Deleesa played a good game by not revealing herself as a catfish, that's impressive.
Oh my god, I forgot, during the family reveals, when- when Deleesa gets to finally see the
video of Trevor and her baby, that was so sweet, I could cry right now.
I can't even imagine how hard it must have been for her to be away from them for that
long.
Anyway, then we get the the winner.
I'm terrible at this... and the winner is...
Trevor!
Trevor wins, aka Deleesa! and this made me really happy, because again, Chloe financially,
I think she's gonna be good, she definitely has the most followers out of everyone, she's
gonna get that coin... and then Deleesa, you know, she said that she just wanted to be
able to buy a home for their family, and that makes me really happy, and I think she was
a good player.
Trevor was a fun character to watch her portray, and it was very sweet.
Jesus, this is a long video, what am I doing?
I do like to, um, check up on everyone on Instagram, see where they are.
I think it's been about a week since the finale, and Deleesa just posted that they actually
did just buy their house, which is really precious, and also they announced their second
pregnancy, so they're expecting another child.
It's all very exciting, and overall I'm really happy that Deleesa and her family won the
money.
And then I think Chloe won fan favorite, I don't know if that comes with a cash prize...
So, good for Chloe, it's always nice to see when, um, you know, the top two adds up the
winner and the fan favorite, you know what I mean?
Everyone else, I've looked at their Instagrams just like in season one.
They're kind of interacting with each other, they're trying to take advantage of the clout,
of the moment.
Of course.
By the way, lots of fans are shipping Chloe and Mitchell because there was a little bit
of flirtiness in the game and in the end of the finale.
And they're kind of teasing it on each of their pages.
It's very similar to the Joey and Miranda situation from season 1.
But I don't ship it for them, I don't see it happening...
Anyway, that's my video about the Circle, I hope you guys enjoyed it.
I love getting involved in the highs and lows of it, it has absolutely no impact on my life,
and that's why I enjoy it, you know?
Before we end the video, we've got to give our small channel shout-outs.
This is becoming my favorite segment.
Interesting thing about both of these channels, they were recommended to me by people on Instagram
and stuff, but then when I went to their channels, I actually realized I had already seen some
of their videos before!
So we love that!
First, we have Kuncan Dastner, real name, Duncan, obviously, but it literally took me
so long to realize that.
I kept being like, Kuncan Dastner, that's really hard to say, that's such an interesting
name.
I'm an idiot.
Duncan does commentary videos, and I like that he does it in a compassionate way.
He really gives people the benefit of the doubt, even if people don't deserve it that
much.
I had watched his video on Eddy Burback and Keemstar, like, months ago, and I really enjoyed
it. and then I just recently watched his video about the Morgz documentary, and I think it
was great.
He's a film student, so I love to listen to these types of videos.
Duncan, thank you for the content, everybody check out his channel if you like commentary
and things, of course you like commentary, hello!
Then we have Anya, whose channel name is Vastava, and she does analysis of internet and pop
culture using data science, which is really fascinating.
I had actually watched and shared her mapping "TikTok mansions in the pandemic" video, like,
five months ago.
That video is so interesting.
Obviously, if you guys enjoy Internet Analysis, but maybe sometimes you're like, oh, I wish
there was more analysis in this, or more data, then her channel is for you!
It is really, really interesting, she's very smart, and it's just cool to see things mapped
out this way, using data science.
It's something I have zero experience in, so hopefully I can learn something from her.
Go check out Anya Vastava's channel!
Thank you guys so much for watching, stay tuned for more videos.
If you watched the Circle, let me know who your favorites are.
if you didn't watch the Circle and you're still here, thank you so much! and stay tuned
for my next Internet Analysis video.
K thanks bye!