Damn, that's a lot going on today with the makeup
I really did not plan to do all of this,  
I kind of just stepped in the booth  and went loco I can't let up on no hoe!
Hi everyone.
Welcome to this video, my name  is Tee if you're new here;  
I really do hope everyone's day is going well.
Well. I'm back.
Your favorite semi-important, mildly cringy,  
commentary YouTuber is back to shake some shit  up again because as you know I don't want peace
I want problems, always.
I also want to cut the sh*t I ain't got time  to be cute and funny today because even though  
I can't really help it because today I would  like to dive into the heavy ass, scary-ass,  
ever debatable-ass topics of  the politics of respectability  
and desirability specifically  in the context of Black women.
We talking featurism,
we talking glamorization,
we talking bonnets.
Still.
So obviously I have a lot to say so I figured I  shouldn't just try to knock it out in just one go.
So today's video will be part  one of either two or three parts  
so whatever I don't get to today will get got to
eventually.
The definition of desirability politics that I  want to use can be found in an article called  
'Desirability: Do You Really Love Fat People  When You Can't Even See Us Beyond The Political?"  
by trans non-binary abolitionist  and author Da'Shaun Harrison
and shout out to fellow creator Teanna, I've  been a fan for a while it was her video on  
pretty privilege and desirability politics  that actually introduced me to this article  
which is about fatphobia so  slightly different from today's topic  
but beyond the empowerment sphere so it's  really great for those like myself who are  
trying to dismantle anti-fat bias both in and  externally so y'all should go check that out.
But the definition it reads,  
"I define desirability politics as  the methodology through which the  
sovereignty of those deemed (conventionally)  attractive/beautiful/arousing is determined."
My interpretation of that is the study  of the different ways pretty privilege  
or sexy power is determined.
So not just what you're gaining or even  avoiding for being considered pretty or sexy,  
but how is it being determined that  you're pretty or sexy in the first place?
We know that White supremacy greatly  influences beauty standards and thus  
affects how society at large determines  how desirable black women are
to them.
I think the next step would be to examine  some of the social criterion for desirability.
The standout finding when I was writing this video  
was that desirability has far less to  do with what a specific person is doing  
and much more to do with the tools that  exist for them to employ and how easily,  
drastically, and dramatically social perception  of a person can change when they are employed.
Perfect example: Ari Lennox and JT.
For those who don't know,  Ari Lennox is a popular R&B  
singer. She rose to fame after her  hit single, 'Shea Butter Baby',  
also known as the First Lady of Dreamville  and very famous for her Instagram lives.
"I was this close to popping  that p*ssy on the goddamn pole  
but then god said no bitch you cannot dance  and no one will pay to see you drop it."
She's a fucking trip.
And JT "I ain't playing" is one half  of the popular rap duo City Girls.
When these women first came out this is what  they look like beautiful, absolutely beautiful
stunning
I couldn't ask for more and at the  times that these photos were taken  
these women were already popular for their music  they already had made a name for themselves  
but not very popular for their looks
at least not for the right reasons.
But don't get me wrong I don't want to make it  
seem like everyone in the world was  calling them ugly and undesirable.
There were definitely still people  who were calling them beautiful  
and admiring them because they are beautiful and  admirable, but there were also people thriving  
in the market of humiliating Black women  who was tearing their comment sections up
publicly comparing Ari to animals
proudly calling JT the ugly City Girl.  It just was not uncommon to run across a  
tweet or tweets that would just say mean things  about these women. But that's changed now though
I mean the hate hasn't completely gone away but  both Ari and JT have definitely seen a drastic  
change in their overall online perception. And  you would think that with the kind of deeply  
entrenched and passionate hatred  that was being thrown at them  
that in order for their comment sections to  do a complete 180 that so would their looks.  
Like their physical appearances would have to  go undergo some major transformations but no,
this is what they look like now.
Obviously the same women very much still  recognizable, but as you can see with just  
a few small changes to their appearances people  went from dehumanizing them to praising them.
I'd like to theorize this, the thing that  was standing in between society or at least  
that section of the internet viewing Ari and JT as  
animals versus now calling them  goddesses and their dream women  
was not a tone body or a new body, new  hair, new makeup, new wardrobe none of that
those were tools, again effective tools  but that wasn't the flip of the switch
the flip of the switch was and  continues to be society's standard and  
default discontent towards  Black women in the ordinary.
I'm so fucking extra actually like I very  much could have just said regular Black women,  
but you tell me which one sounds more interesting:
regular Black women or  Black women in the ordinary?
Know what I mean?
So what is Black women in the ordinary?
Well, just as it sounds a Black  woman, a woman who is Black.
Not a Black girl magic connoisseur,
not a melanated queen..
not a Black woman celebrated and elevated through  the lens of her tenacity and her accomplishments  
her superhuman work ethic
shout out to Yoncé.
None of that extracurricular activity,  
but just a plain Black woman  which is majority of Black women.
White supremacy and misogynoir makes  it so society does not reward her
society does not desire her
even worse if she falls into other intersections  of oppression if she's a dark-skinned Black woman,  
a fat Black woman, a disabled  Black woman, a trans Black woman
rendered invisible.
Typically unrewarded without first being exotified  to some capacity this happens in a number of ways  
we've talked about the fetishization  of Black women on this channel before,  
but another one that I've recently  come to articulate is glamorization
I know all these -izations like  fuck can y'all give us a break?
I've always noticed this, but like I said  I didn't quite have the words for it until  
I came across Ty Talk's video on  it called 'I'm Black, not Black'
I love that video.
I love how she did that video, but the  title alone encapsulates pretty much all  
that I'm about to say in this next bit  Ty talks a lot about how the Black women  
who get a lot of praise on the internet often  present themselves in a way that just exudes this  
mega goddess sun from within perfect  skin, body, hair and we love that for them
we love that for them and what it does for  their self-confidence and self-image, but  
we would be remiss not to acknowledge  that this puts pressure on them  
and other Black women to constantly look their  absolute best in order to get the same attention
and really just overall  acknowledgement of existence  
that women of other races get as a default.
Ty also explains that glamorized they're not
a lot of the Black women who  are placed on these pedestals  
often possess characteristics that appease  colorist, texturists and featurists ideals
now that featurists part that's where I want  to take it because that's a huge part and  
we don't talk about it enough because it's tricky.
So, here we go.
I-I understand featurism as prejudiced against  
facial features that are recognized  as typically Black or Afro-centric
you see this is what the fuck I be talking about
featurism is such an unacknowledged  topic that I had to come up with my-
in big 2021
I had to come up with my own  definition for it and I like I  
still like I'm still not 100  on it because I know it's vague
the internet is just such a breeding  ground to gaslight Black women's  
struggles because let the internet  tell it featurism ain't even a word
there's no official  Merriam-Webster definition for it
there's still a little squiggly line  under it when you type it out as if  
it's grammatically incorrect or whatever the f*ck.
This is why we say listen to Black women  and just hear us out when we try to share  
our personal experiences because  academia ain't always backing us up
sometimes academia will have you thinking  we're fucking delusional even though  
the issues sit right there in front of you
anyway featurism, it's real.
If you're a consumer or even just a casual  observer of pop culture then you have absolutely  
seen people in publications use featurism as a  tool to shame and disrespect Black women and girls
when people say Megan Thee Stallion she's  so se- oh she's so sexy, she's so beautiful
but her nose, it ruins her face.
Featurism.
When people acted like Beyoncé personally  betrayed them for giving birth to a daughter  
with facial features that resembled  Jay-Z's more than they did hers,
featurism.
And she was just a fucking baby.
Now I could sit here and be mad at the media  for being so mean to Black women and girls  
I could go on a rant about the publications  who continued to push this whole  
Black people with Black ass  features or ugly propaganda
and yes, f*ck y'all.
But I think it's a much more  interesting conversation
a much more interesting segue to talk about  how these biases are upheld intraculturally.
Following the trend of using  musical artists as exemplars,
I want to talk about Asian Doll aka Asian Da Brat.
I like her, I real- hold on hold on
I like every person I'm about to mention okay?
I like her, I really do.
I don't really listen to her music  that much, but I like-I like her style
I like how she looks like how she presents herself  and I also love how she spoke out against colorism  
even when it seemed like the whole industry was  trying to tell her that this shit didn't exist
so yeah I like her, but why the  f*ck is her name Asian Doll?
Same thing with Tokyo Jetz,  why is her name Tokyo Jetz?
[Katya] "When I tell you what I'm about to  tell you, you will be told my opinion."
I'll tell you why
all right I'll theorize as to why,  but you're probably not gonna like it
it's likely because they have  features, presumably facial features,  
that are more commonly associated with Asian women.
I'm gonna put on a little bit more  like I think I'm a little bit nervous.
Now of course this is not to say  that Black women can't naturally  
have these features I mean obviously  because these women ain't even Asian
what I'm saying is I didn't just pull  this out of my ass even Tokyo Jetz herself  
said that she adopted that nickname  because of the way her eyes are set.
That's wildly f*cking  problematic wouldn't you say?
I'm just thinking about how upset Black women get  when we hear women of other ages say things like  
"oh I got-I got a Black girl  booty, I got Black girl lips."
Imagine if there was a non-Black rapper with  the stage name Black Fairy or Africana Grande
and the list goes on Lightskin  Keisha, Mulatto now known as Latto.
But I think nicknames like these are so  common especially amongst Black female rappers  
because it's so common within the  Black community for the feature  
that people fixate on and praise  you for to be an ambiguous feature
a feature that's not typically Black.
A feature that removes you from  being a Black woman in the ordinary.
You see how I brought that full cir- you see?
I'm nice like that.
And then rewards you for it
let me not forget that part.
Removes you from being an ordinary Black woman and  then rewards you for not being an ordinary Black  
woman and then this cycle of this outside fixation  and then the reward system thereafter it goes on  
for so many years and these women internalize  it so deeply that you make it your stage name,
you make it your Instagram handle,
you make it your entire identity.
You say this is what I want you to know  me for and in doing so, whether they want  
to admit it or not, it serves as a symbol  of separation from the demographic they  
actually belong to. And don't think that this kind  of stuff only happens in the music industry okay
the exotification of Black women happens  all over it shows up all the time.
Like do y'all remember the foreign phase?
When it was just so cool  to be a Black girl who was  
"foreign" and that's another thing I will not allow  anyone to gaslight me on because I was there
I was fighting for my f*cking life back then.
I remember girls would have  user names like foreignkiki
kikiforeign
and it always baffled me because it  was like sis, ain't you from Detroit?
So you see that's another  symbol of separation from  
being a regular Black girl, an ordinary Black girl
even if you are a regular, ordinary Black girl
that symbol of separation even  if it was just pure delusion  
that shit meant something because we see  how the world treats the Asian Doll's versus
how they treat the Chika's  okay we know what's good.
And this is not to say that these  women hate being Black not at all
you know what let me let me read exactly what I  
have here so I don't f*ck it up  because I want to emphasize this.
This is not to say that  these women hate being Black.  
It is completely okay to say "hey, my  eyes are beautiful and I want you to  
notice that. My nose is beautiful,  my skin complexion is beautiful."
Of course, but that's completely different for  making these features your entire identity
society has a weird way of detaching these  characteristics from who they are as people  
and making it seem as though their  beauty is in spite of their Blackness  
or like these characteristics are their one  saving grace because if they didn't have it  
they would just be a Black woman in the ordinary.
Now in Ari and JT's case this doesn't apply  but I'm including all of this in the same video
the featurism, the exotification,  
the glamorization all at one time just to  exemplify that Black women in the ordinary
Black women just existing  without any sort of decoration  
is socially treated as the  contrary to a desirable person
almost like the rival to a desirable person.
That is what seems to push the needle from  society's baseline hatred of us to their
tolerance of us
it really is not what we do to our appearance,  
it's that the more that this fickle and gullible  ass society believes that we're not regular
the more comfortable they feel  
with loving us out loud and viewing us  as desirable, attractive, arousing etc.
I've said once before in a Patreon  video, my most recent one actually,  
uh Patreon.com/TeeNoir you already know the vibes.
I said that attraction  can't necessarily be forced,  
but it can absolutely be manipulated. And  one of the main driving forces of that  
is the influence of other people's perception  and treatment of a person or a group of people.
This is why we say representation matters because  who you see getting praised on the internet
who you see on the TV screen, on the movie screen  and how other characters are reacting to that  
person has such a great impact on how we view  and treat people like them in the real world.
You want to know why Issa  Rae is our queen of queens?
Because everything that has her name on  it she's put in regular ass Black people
regular ordinary ass Black women at the  forefront and saying take your things.
And there's no hurdles for her to  realize her beauty; she already knows it.
There's no trials and tribulations for  her to find and maintain a love interest
a sexy ass, desirable ass, love interest at that
it's already given, it's already expected.
In Issa's world, Black women  are beautiful in the ordinary
in the regular
in the plain as hell and that's just that.
Wake up
wake up
wake up out of your sleep.
Now the last thing I'd like to address are  the people who have something negative to say  
about women like Ari Lennox or  even women like Chloe Bailey
who have gone from a more modest  and I guess you could say organic  
image to one that plays up their sex appeal more.
You know I understand both  sides and that's what sucks
like I really wish I could be on my no frauds  and just pick a side pick a side but I can't.
Because I glamorize myself in every single video  you see-you see me, but this is not how I walk  
around on a day-to-day basis like this is not  how I present myself to the world every damn day
shitting me?
And that's a calculated decision. But  I also understand that all of this it  
doesn't necessarily change the hatred  towards Black women in the ordinary nor  
does it promote respect for us and  I say us because again this is..fake.
So it doesn't change much it just creates  a little safety pocket so when Black women  
are elevated because of how they've  worked the system of desirability
the elevator isn't necessarily  being sent back down for the others.  
So whether intentional or not with  playing into desirability politics  
it's really just the process of evading  hate rather than working to condemn it.
So yeah you know I get that um  
and I get the irony in that me talking about  it and then sitting up here looking like this
I get it- I get it um but you know me  I cannot blame a Black woman doing her  
best not trying to hurt the rest for anything.  So I think it's a bit selfish for us to blame  
these women or turn our noses up at these women  because sometimes careers depend on it like
Whereas with us, society, we gain not a damn  thing from being so selective in our validation.
We gain not a damn thing from upholding these  biases. We are the majority at the end of the  
day and although holding ourselves accountable  isn't necessarily going to fix the problem,  
Accountability is always a good  starting point wouldn't you say?
So yeah what we respond to and how  we respond plays a much bigger role  
than a BBL and toning up your body and wigs and  glamorization and exotification ever could, okay?
So maybe we should look within.
Maybe.
Thank you all so much for watching this video,  especially if you made it all the way to the end.
I do want to say while I did do  research in prep for this video  
it isn't as cited sources fact checky  as it usually is because well for one,  
I'm doing a whole lot of that in part two of  this video so I didn't want it to be an overkill
and for two, today's topic is my reality, okay?
I came to a lot of personal realizations  and I articulated a lot of observations for  
the very first time in doing this video.  And while the facts and the stats and  
the articles and the book references are cool  and stuff and it makes me sound kind of smart
it's also important for us to hone in on the  opinions and the personal real world experience  
aspect of it because that's just  as important to the conversation  
and that's what humanizes the conversation.
This topic, at least for me,  was extremely complicated
if you saw my community post  a couple weeks ago this video  
is well overdue like I already wrote it  and recorded it, edited it and posted it,  
but only to Patreon because I felt like  something was missing and a lot of things were
so I'm happy I you know got my shit  together. Um but yeah it's- it's tough  
even though it's a tough conversation in general,
I feel like it's especially difficult for  me as a commentary creator because I feel  
a lot of people expect
a lot of the times I feel like it's my  job to articulate my thoughts in a way  
that takes them from point A to point B  when in reality the topic is more like a..
But as my channel is taking a turn where  I'm just popping in every once in a while to  
really give it all I got and  really, you know, challenge myself  
rather than just popping up once  a week to barely crack the surface
I want to make sure that my content and  what people expect of my content isn't  
snowballing into something where like  this is a conclusions factory and people  
constantly want point A's to  point B's and answers out of me
because I don't fucking got 'em okay.
Point A's to point B's ain't got it.
This video, for example, was more like a point C  to point Q and that's where I'm most comfortable
so yeah I-I would like people to  think of my channel as more of  
a community think tank and understand that I'm  just-i'm just trying to chop it up rather than  
um viewing this channel as  an end-all be-all resource.
Be sure to leave your thoughts  in your comments down below.
Give me a thumbs up or a thumbs down,  
however you're feeling today  and subscribe for more content.
I'll catch you in the next video.
Bye!