
Hi everyone, welcome to this video.  My name is Tee if you're new here;  
I really do hope everyone's day is going well.
I can't believe the day is finally here I ca-  I can't believe I am finally comfortable enough  
to sit here on the Internet and  just talk about some gay ass sh*t.
Let's get into it.
So, if you've consumed any form of art or media  in the past five to ten years then you know  
that the years of the queers are here.
The wait of the non-straights..
is over.
She's a poet today.
And in this integration of queer/ non-straight stories into modern media, the
hot button topic that  seemingly everyone is interested in and
always has to be included is  the infamous coming out story.
And while the stories of coming out  are very easy to empathize with
and very enjoyable, especially in fictional  works,
with time I'm realizing that the media's concept and culture of coming out
 is growing very archaic. It's just losing its revolutionary spice.
Because consumerism  tends to be very one-track minded.
While we're enjoying these stories,  which it's perfectly okay to, we fail to also acknowledge it's propitiatory
[Jamaican patois]:"Yes, just learned that word."
It's propitiatory aka its people-pleasing nature.  
In addition to that, I also want to talk  about the ways in which queer people,  
even if unknowingly, internalize that  outside approval as our own truths
or at least I'mma try.
Let's define coming out.
I define coming out as the confirmation of  queer/non-straight sexuality or sexual identity.  
So by my understanding you  can come out to yourself
you can come out to other people, but that is  my general perception of it, a confirmation.
I'm putting emphasis on the word, but  I do use it loosely. We'll get there.
I've said before that coming out is  not the revelation that you're queer
it's the declaration that  you won't apologize for it
and you know, I had the right idea.
As always, bless my heart. I do be having the right idea.
But there's a layer underneath that that I need to go ahead and start chipping at.
Because that saying, I don't want to say it supports
well yeah, it supports and it lends just the slightest bit of leeway to the idea that
before you made that big declaration, that you were apologizing for it
and for many queer people, myself included, that couldn't be any further from the truth.
And because I never went through those things, and this is about to sound real weird,
but I spent a lot of time wondering if
I had even earned my stripes like if  I was even really valid with the shit.
Let's talk about the media's influence on this.
Coming out scenes have been around and popular for decades.
We can all probably think of  a few off the top of our head right now.
"Mom. Dad.
I'm gay."
"Can I tell you something now?"
"Yes, yes, yes, yes. Anything."
"I'm a lesbian."
"I've been thinking about it a lot,
I think I'm bisexual."
"You know you're gonna love my boyfriend,  he's like a total chick flick nut."
The first argument I'm going  to address is that Hollywood is  
forcing the significance of coming  out onto these queer stories  
even when it doesn't necessarily fit the  plot and that's harmful because it implies  
that an honest queer existence simply cannot  exist without big intense moments like that.
I see where y'all are coming from because  Hollywood really does make it seem like coming out  
is this big mandatory moment even though so many  of us didn't have that and we doing just fine.
However comma, I don't necessarily  want those stories to go away  
because there's privilege in the fact  that some of us never had to come out.  
The fact that nobody questions me,  aside from like in the comments,  
but the fact that no one in my immediate circle  ever questions me or berates me about my sexuality  
there is privilege in that and if you can  relate you benefit from that privilege too.
So, some people have to come  out because they're trapped in  
and they spend many years in  preparation for that and I  
don't want that representation to just  disappear because I don't relate to it.
So, no I have to disagree.  I don't think Hollywood is  
forcing significance onto these stories because it  can be significant- it is significant for someone
I just think Hollywood is missing the mark on who  
it's being done for and who it's really  liberating. The media paints coming out  
as a need for acceptance rather than a desire  for understanding. The two are very different.
Dominique Jackson, who many of you  may know as Miss Elektra Abundance  
on the hit show 'Pose',
speaking of 'Pose'
y'all look at what I just found out this morning.
We lost.
We really, really lost.
The category is sadness.
She did an interview with the  Caribbean Equality Project,  
where she said something to the  effect of "we look at these words  
like tolerance and acceptance and we  don't realize how degrading it is.
Language like that automatically places the other  
person in a place of superiority  and we are supposed to be equals.
So, no I don't need you to accept  me. I may want you to understand me,  
but that takes effort on both ends."
But that's completely different from  me needing your acceptance and using  
it as some sort of permission slip  to go out and live my life in the  
same way that straight people  get to do without no back talk.
Oftentimes these traditional coming  out stories paint the narratives that:
A) queerness is inherently  a lie that will eventually  
need to be revealed in order to be valid and B)
A. B.
2) once it is revealed happiness can't really  be achieved until everyone around you at least  
doesn't care.
I'm a great believer that life imitates art  at a much faster rate than the contrary so  
the more we saturate the media  with these tired ass tropes,  
the more these expectations will spill  over into our real life interactions.
Just look at how we treat celebrities  and public figures when we think-  
when we think that they might not be straight.  Honestly, there haven't been that many huge  
celebrity coming out moments in my lifetime  really all I can remember is like Ellen,
Adam Lambert,
Jojo Siwa.
Oh and Anderson Cooper I mean he tried, but  okay you see perfect segue.
I'm a genius!
You see how I was like "Oh! Anderson Cooper.
Chile we been knew."
Let's stop that.
I don't like it when fans or consumers, whatever  we want to call ourselves, our "gaydar" starts  
to go off and we begin speculating about the  sexualities of celebrities and public figures.
Listen, it will never be our place because in  the speculation we could be playing a role in  
pressuring them to talk about something  they're not ready to, or worse, that they  
haven't yet come to terms with themselves or  just don't feel like talking about. I feel like,
and this is just a theory, I  have nothing to back this up,
but I feel like that's exactly what  happened with Lil Nas X and Jojo Siwa.
For those who don't know,  Lil Nas X was or is a Barb  
and when his breakout single 'Old  Town Road' first started to take off
Stan Twitter dug up his old tweets where  I assumed he was saying some gay ass shit  
and they were just dangling it over his  head. and I have reason to believe that's  
why he had that big moment when he did  and the way he did because he just wanted  
to get ahead of the story like he just  didn't want it to be that big of a thing.
I am so happy for him that it all  worked out and I'm super proud of him  
like for real that is that's a gay ass rapper  right there so I love that for him, but yikes.
Same thing with Jojo Siwa, I'm really proud  of her and I'm really happy that her career  
is still flourishing even after coming  out, but I remember when she used to post  
pictures and videos with her then best friend, now  girlfriend everyone in the comments would be like
Not everyone wants those huge  moments like in the movies
I mean they might obviously I  don't know Jojo and Nas personally,  
but some people don't want to have that  discussion with the whole wide world. And  
when fans put this crazy amount of pressure on  them like "oh just come on out of the closet sis.
We already know just come on  now, we'll support you either way."
Case in point, who says they give  a f*** if you support it or not
I swear
on muvas, on foe nem grave
shut up
shut up
you see I do too much and whatever
They do.
Pull up G-Wag' 63 ow, make a 55 suck they teeth
And I'm not talking about the people who  want their faves to speak about their  
sexuality for visibility's sake or because  they would like to draw inspiration from that
I am referring to the people who  simply want to hear their faves  
talk about their sexuality just so they can say I  knew it- I knew it all along see it's fine though
who says they were seeking your  approval in the first place?!  
We're conditioned to believe that they are.  
The media, amongst other things,  they are not the only guilty party.  
But the media has conditioned us to believe  that those are the prerequisites to queer truth.
Rowan Ellis has an amazing video called  'Liberation vs Assimilation in Queer Cinema.'  
The whole video is a gem so well thought  out, but towards the 20-minute mark she says
"There can be truth behind the  stereotypes in queer cinema,  
but there's a difference between using these  as presupposed consistencies across an identity  
because that's what you've always seen on screen,  versus looking at them as individual cases."
So again, I am not upset about these traditional  coming out stories that we see in the movies
I am not upset at these momentous celebrity  declarations because it represents someone  
it's doing good for someone, but that is one  version, one journey and it's not the monolith.
Viewing it as the monolith is reductive as  fuck and it fails to not even represent,  
but just shine the slightest light on the breadth  of queer experience. And my criticism of this is  
not an absolute I can be thankful for how far  queer representation in the media has come,  
especially in recent years, and still demand nuance  and more introspective research from writers.
Okay, now the second trope that I think the media  has completely played the fuck out and I actually  
do wish would die completely are the ones where  coming out happens at the expense of someone else.
For example, in the movie 'In and Out',
he came out at the altar right  before he was about to marry a woman.
Ok.
Or the 2020 hit show 'Love Victor',
when Mia caught Victor kissing  what's his name on the bench
Benji.
He was kissing Benji on a bench.
Or! Or! True Blood.
True Blood hive stand the f*** up.
Because I'll be trying to tell the kids  you see you see your little 'Twilight',
your little 'Vampire Diaries'
'The Originals'
cute.
and I love me some Niklaus Michaelson
you know I do. You know I do.
But how do I put this? On his best  day Klaus could not see an Eric Northman.
On Elena Gilbert's most triflin' day  she could not touch a Sookie Stackhouse.
Okay okay I'm getting distracted.
So that episode where Lafayette
R.I.P. Nelson Ellis
remember when he got caught f******  Jessica's boyfriend so Lafayette he was out  
obviously, but James, Jessica's boyfriend, was  not and when Jessica found them she was pissed,  
as she should have been! But they voted in a way  where Lafayette was able to flip it back on her
[Lafayette]:"Everybody else in  the f***** town falling in love  
and getting engaged does it ever f******  occur to you that Lafayette, that queen,  
that make all you white heterosexuals laugh  and feel good about yourself has it f*******  
ever occurred to you that maybe  I want a piece of happiness too?"
"Living your truth" as a queer  person does not absolve you  
from the consequences that could come  from purposefully hurting other people
you should still apologize for it and you  shouldn't immediately expect forgiveness  
just because you're now "living  your truth" and you know what?
I think now is a good time for me  to go ahead and say fuck that phrase
I can't stand that phrase
I detest that- is that the right word?
I detest that phrase not because it's  inherently bad but just because it's like..  
living in your tru- get the f*** out of my face
Know what I mean?
Because are we ever?
The short answer is yes.
There are some people out there who are fully  
living in their truth I  guess, y'all hold that down.
But there's just so much emphasis on non-straight  people to just 100% of the time be living in  
their pure 100% authenticity where they 100%  know themselves and they never change on it
and it's just like spare me.
Give me a break.
That's why people fell so deeply in love with  a movie like 'Moonlight' because that movie
spoiler alert
resonates so deeply because we see Chiron, who  everyone knew was gay, who had to suffer for it  
and we see him form a friendship with  Kevin, which later turned intimate.
Then, he had to retract from that friendship with  Kevin because Kevin wasn't out yet. Then, he spent  
all those years alone or possibly with women  because of internalized homophobia and because of  
his status as a kingpin in his- in his community.  Then he goes back to Kevin well into adulthood
and the movie ends without giving  us any closure. Any closure at all.
Like did they have sex?
Are they together?
Is Chiron out now?
Is Kevin?
Don't nobody know. Because they  don't know and that's their truth.  
But because a story like that, as raw and true  as it was, because it was so back and forth  
and it was so hazy, it didn't give Hollywood  the opportunity to jump in and f*** it up.
Literally access denied.
Like Hollywood did not have any room to jump  in and appoint that movie as the universal  
truth of gay Black existence. Part of me also  feels like that's why we're so hung up on  
labels and identifiers. Initially, the title  of this video was gonna be "I'm Pansexual,  
but What the Hell Does that Even Mean?"
Good title, right?
Yeah I'll be fucking y'all up with  those, but yeah I was gonna spend  
a good amount of time just dissecting  what the term pansexual means to me  
and exactly what it does not mean to me and yada  yada and in doing so when I was writing that video,  
I realized that I actually don't know how I feel  about using that label anymore because I don't  
know how I feel about using labels at all anymore.  Because the real kicker is: hot take hot take.
Each of these labels and identifiers are equally  as useless in the grand scheme of things.
The only reason labels exist is  to help other people understand us.
Follow me please.
Not everyone is straight,
so we developed the word gay,
not everyone is gay,
so we developed the word bi,
not everyone is bi, 
so we developed the word pan not everyone  is pan so we developed the word omni
so on and so forth. We keep developing  more language and more labels that help  
us better identify with the world and with  each other, within the community. And I have  
this theory that eventually we're just gonna keep  breaking these labels in half and half and half
making them smaller and smaller until  we come to the general consensus of what  
so many of us have been saying for years:
it's a spectrum.
No one is 100% completely one thing or another.  
Every single person, even if under a  very specific unlikely circumstance,  
is susceptible to bouncing all over that  spectrum if they will allow themselves to.
"All y'all gay. Whatever everybody gay.
Now, in they own way.
I be starting shit."
And for me, I felt pansexual was the  closest fit and as far as I know like
it is,
but it's not the perfect fit because there  is no perfect fit for me and I had to give  
myself permission to accept that I just  am what I am and that's a valid truth too  
even if it doesn't come with a forthright label.
The apprehension I had to  being more fluid with labels  
is likely rooted in the fact that queer  people are constantly being told things like
"It's just a phase."
"You're just confused."
"You don't know what you really want yet."
And we're so hellbent on proving these people  wrong when we finally do decide on the label
not a sexuality
because that's not a choice, but the label is.
Another conversation.
Once we decide on a label we take on this  overwhelming pressure to stick to it and  
never change it no matter what  just to prove to the naysayers  
that we actually do know what we're doing. Again,
yet another form of placation. Yet another  thing we seek approval from others for  
to make us feel more honest in our own existence.   I feel like I'm preaching. I feel like I'm preaching,  
but I literally cannot shut the fuck up about it
I have so much more to say
okay, so so many of us are in  this active pursuit of honesty,  
but instead of searching for it within ourselves
we're looking for it in universal  definitions and coming out  
stories and declarations and earning our  stripes and that's a lot of pressure.
Consequently, this tension  spills over into the community.
The girls be fighting!
Oh my gosh.
All of this "pansexual equals biphobic"
"pansexual is transphobic"
"there's only gay, bi, and  straight nothing in between.."
Stop it.
All this tension and animosity  towards each other, for what?
When all any of us are ever trying to do  
is understand and be understood  and we fighting with each other?
Go get the belt.
So for me-
let's bring it back
I know we're all over the place today,  
but for me, I had to redefine what  it means to "live in my truth".
Living in my truth is living in my experiences
it's living in my fun
it's living in my dilly dallying
in my metamorphism
in my malleability
all of that shit.
Right now, living in my truth  is not living in any rigid  
identity or any permanent  label, but that could change-
that and that's the beauty in it
that could change and I would  still be telling the truth
because it's a truth that belongs to me.
And still I'm not super strict about it you  know like I'm still okay with being called pan  
I've never not been okay with being called bi
and shit you can even call me gay because I- these  days? Long story short just don't call me straight.
That's the only rule just don't call  me straight because that is the one  
thing that I know that I know that I know
that I ain't.
Okay, we have bounced all over today I know  we went from coming out tropes in the media  
to with celebrities to labels and  identifiers to my own journey it's-
but I tried my best to make these  thoughts as cohesive as I could and  
you know given the circumstances  I think I did pretty damn good.
Um, I also have an announcement,
is everyone ready?
I made a Patreon!
Y'all have been asking me for months if I have  a Patreon so I finally went ahead and made one.
For those of you who don't know  
Patreon is a membership service that offers  viewers exclusive content for a monthly fee.
All patrons, no matter what tier you join, will  have access to an extended and uncensored version  
of every single YouTube upload and from  there, other tiers offer exclusive ad-free 
ad-free content and commentary  that won't be available on YouTube.
For example,
"So we've already talked about the  masculinization of Black women, which  
I feel is rooted in transphobia. But the  last time I said that people were like
and I was like
Did I just come up with a radical theory?"
That's up right now
get into it.
That 'Malcolm and Marie'
the one that I don't like, but y'all  keep pressing me to put it back up
guess where it's at?
Uh, quarterly book club videos,
Q and A's, I'm even thinking about  putting a makeup video up there.
So so yeah if you want that exclusive  
more intimate look into my content  then patron is where it's at
Patreon is the place for you. But  listen, if all you want to do is  
watch me on YouTube from time to  time that's still perfectly fine
like we're good I promise.
And finally I know it's like  this video just won't end huh?
Finally, y'all asked for it in the last video,
so here it is
my thoughts on the infamous, the iconic,  
'Forvr Mood'
Ok. I totally understand why some of  you don't want to pay $40 dollars for a candle
$130 for a set.
I get that because it is a little bit bold of a  request especially considering Bath & Body uh  
that place that be selling the lotions and  the body sprays, get me? Especially since you  
can get their candles like $10/$15 bucks if you  catch them on a good sale. So we're here on that. 
and I respect that but let me put it to you this  way you don't know that McDonald's cheeseburgers  
are nasty until you have Five Guys or In &  Out or something like that you don't know  
that FourLokos and Fireball is for rookies  until you have that 100% agave tequila you  
get me. The Chrysler 300 looked just like the  Phantom till that motherfucking Phantom pull  
up do I make myself clear? When you spend so much  time thinking that one thing is the absolute best  
it can get and then some real competition comes  along, it starts to make perfect sense why it costs  
twice as much because it they burn for twice as  long, the scents are twice as full, the packaging  
is like a hundred times prettier. You know what?  Y'all know how I feel about a good box. Y'all know  
know how excuse me are you joking stop  playing okay my favorite scents from the  
Valentine's I think she called it 'Adore  You' collection were uh 'Champagne Wasted'  
and 'Sweet Spot' and then my favorite from her 'Send Moods' collection which was like the fall ting is
'Grown Folks Business' and 'Skinny Dipped.'  
All of them smell good but those are  just my favorites and I also like 'Caked  
Up' from the core collection. The only one  I didn't like from the core collection was  
it it's a purple one i'm not really remembering  the name but I did give it to my cousin and she  
loves it so to each is own. Again, not sponsored  not even free. I spent my own money on this chile. 
This a car note right here but I would  definitely say it's worth it. Thank you all  
so much for watching this video, especially if  you made it all the way to the end. Be sure to  
leave your thoughts and your comments down below.  Give me a thumbs up or a thumbs down, however  
you're feeling today, and subscribe for more  content. I'll catch y'all in the next video.
Bye!