Hi everyone, welcome to this video.  My name is Tee if you're new here;  
I really do hope everyone's day is going well.
So, remember in my Paris Hilton video  I said that we would celebrate my 100k  
in a more appropriate setting.
This is the setting.
[@ThatdudeMcFly]: "Suck unnu madda  pum pum hole. Suck unnu granny too."
Thank you all so much for 100,000 subscribers.
Actually, you know what let me just  say the exact amount because I usually  
round down and then y'all be getting  mad at me like I'm lying so hold on
Okay at the time of this  recording in real time, I have
[Jamaican patois]: Shiiiiit
125,929 subscribers.
To know that there are thousands of  people around the world who take time  
out of their day to listen to me, to learn  with me, to share new perspectives with me
That's crazy, thank you. Thank you so much.  I could not ask for a better community.
Today I want to talk about the  iconic hit TV show 'Girlfriends'.
'Girlfriends' is a sitcom that aired  from the years 2000 to 2008 and it was an  
instant success due to its intricate, yet  relatable story lines and fast-paced humor.
It was created by Mara Brock Akil, who  is a reputable screenwriter and producer.
She's written for some of our favorite  black TV classics such as 'Moesha,'
'The Game,'
'Being Mary Jane,'
and of course 'Girlfriends.'
As a child, 'Girlfriends' was especially  important to me because I got the chance  
to see four beautiful Black women navigate the  highs and lows of life, love, and friendship.
And even though I was too young to  fully comprehend the complexities of  
what they were going through the show was  still funny; it was popular as hell and  
nobody was seeing 'Girlfriends'  not back then and not even today.
Now one of my favorite things to do is rewatch TV  shows and movies from my childhood as an adult.
Not just for the sake of nostalgia, but you  
know, just so that I can re-evaluate  things through a more mature lens.
But I couldn't do that with  'Girlfriends' because as soon  
as they took it off the air it's like  they took it off the face of the earth
but
my Black Jesus answers prayer  
because on September 11th all eight seasons  of 'Girlfriends' were released on Netflix.
So, I rewatched it.
Yes all eight seasons with my grown-up mind and my  no longer innocent eyes and I have some thoughts
Yes quite quite a few thoughts
So let's get into it
Let's start with the character rundown
First up, we have Joan Clayton  aka Leader of the pick-me's
General of the Pathetic Platoon
Joan is beautiful, she's charismatic, she's  successful lots to love about her whole lot, but  
I have no doubt in my mind that she would climb  up Mount Everest barefoot and sell her last good  
kidney at the top if it meant it would better her  chances of her one day becoming somebody's wife.
[Lynn]:"Okay Joan, what happened  to you being all empowered,  
not getting all desperate over some guy huh?"
[Joan]:" He called!"
[Nella Rose]:"Are you not ashamed of yourself?
Are you not embarrazzed?!  This is really embarrazzing."
Next up, we have Maya Wilkes
AKA Miss [Maya]: "Oh hellll no."
I get why Maya is a fan  favorite, because she's gorgeous,  
she's funny, she's outgoing, and unlike  the other girlfriends she really only  
made one catastrophic mistake and that  was emotionally cheating on her husband
Darnell Wilkes
[Regina Hall]:"Maybe I could help him  in a room in which there are no others  
or you can all watch, I don't give a shit."
But back to Maya back to Maya aside from her humor
Maya's best trait was her making  an avid effort to work on herself  
and find her passion while she tried  to navigate life as a single mother,
you know after Darnell left her cheating ass.
She was down and out for a second you she had her  pity party as she should, but she quickly realized  
that there was beauty in the struggle and she  used her pain to write a book and help other women
We *snaps* love to see it!
Next, we have Lynn Searcy.
The tatted up, freeloading, radical, free spirit.
While I wish I was brave enough to navigate  life as fearlessly and as optimistically as Lynn
I'm actually very grateful that I proceeded  with at least a little caution because sis was a
BUM.
[Nene Leakes]: "Girl please put your shoes  on. Let's go find you a home honey."
Sis was way too comfy freeloading  off of her friends for me.
And finally, we have the bougie barbie herself
Toni Childs
Ummm...
the ass whoopin was about a decade overdue
Yeah
Because that mouth .. them clapbacks ..
no no
Also, there was a whole lot of  emphasis put on Lynn's sex life  
as if Toni wasn't literally engaged to  a man while she was living with another
Then Greg left her and  pretended to get back with her  
just so that she could walk in on him  f****** another woman on her floor.
Oh um
[Toni]:"Help me, Hello"
[Greg]:"Payback's a bitch, isn't it Toni?"
Not on the custom-made  freshly imported Persian rug!
Oh my gosh, this show was insane.
But yes, bougie Barbie, superficial Sally,  champagne taste, Kool-Aid money, hood rich.
That's what- that's what it is, she was hood rich.
You know she was successful as a realtor, but  she was never able to acquire any real assets or  
gain any real wealth because the second she  got paid, she went and blew it all on designer  
clothes and bags and shoes trying to keep up  with the Jones' trying to "look" prestigious.
[Joan]:"Toni, you cannot afford a $17,000 bag."
[Toni]: "But I worked hard for this bag.  I deserve it. It's mine and I'm not poor."
[Willliam]:"That crazy heffa just bit me!"
And in an unstable economy under a capitalist  
society which at that point  in time was being run by
*mumbles* "G*orge B*sh"
Yeah made me nervous- nervous to say the least
Now, a big question that I've  been seeing swirling around  
is which girlfriend do you relate to the most?
And to be honest, I see  myself in all of these women.
You know I'm detail and goal  oriented, a borderline workaholic 
like Joan
I'm sassy like Maya
I'm open-minded like Lynn and I'm bougie like Toni
well not that bougie, but you  get what I'm trying to say
But I think the better question is
Who is my favorite character?
And isn't it obvious?!
William!
Big Willy never missed, not one time.
The jokes, the punchlines,  the clapbacks he never missed.
Was he a little ignorant about women?
Sure.
Was it obvious that if he wasn't a successful  lawyer that he would still be one of those  
"Oh you're so beautiful too bad you'd  never date a guy like me." kind of men?
Maybe.
But there was never a moment where I was  yelling at my screen absolutely disgusted  
at his choices or actions and that's more than  I can say about any of the other characters.
But when those writers tried to  force William and Joan together
William and Joan are a perfect example of  non-romantic soul mates and we wasted time
we WASTED time trying to get them together.
That time could have been better  spent seeing Darnell and Lena
You know the lady he was  about to marry after Maya.
We could have spent some time watching him  suppress his feelings for Maya by trying  
to force a love with Lena.
That would have  placed the audience in a superior position,
gradually building dramatic tension,
stay with me
That way when the wedding scene happened  and Darnell left Lena at the altar for Maya  
it would have come to us, the audience, as a sort  of climactic release rather than a blind side.
Not that I didn't want them back together  because I actually really liked them as a couple.
I just genuinely didn't see it  coming like I didn't see any  
lingering chemistry or romance between  them at least not on Darnell's part.
It felt like every time he was around  Maya he was genuinely uninterested  
and I'm not just saying that I wanted  to see more of Darnell because I want  
him to park that big Mac truck  right in this little garage.
I'm saying that because when  it comes to Joan and William
I would have rather watch paint dry.
I would rather watch grass grow.
Literally anything that when it's two  people with the chemistry of siblings,  
cousins at best, try to  force a romantic connection.
Moving on as mentioned earlier, 'Girlfriends' was  a show that aired from the early to mid 2000s.
So you gotta know there were some jokes  and some tropes that did not age well.
I have a theory that a lot of the cringey jokes  and story lines that we saw in this show were a  
result of unchecked biases from the writers or-or  because of the lack of awareness of society,  
the acceptable lack of awareness of society at  the time it was probably just fun to be ignorant.
And don't get me wrong because some of  my favorite black screenwriters worked  
on 'Girlfriends' and I absolutely love their work.
If you don't know about them, learn about them.
But why were these things so  funny for eight seasons straight.
Chile, the micro aggressions  were through the roof.
Every single time a man did  something slightly feminine
Gay joke. 
Every time a man did something slightly  out of the ordinary, slightly peculiar
Gay joke.
And I also noticed that lesbianism was only  mentioned in the context of hypersexuality.
Y'all, anytime the topic of women loving women,  lesbianism bisexuality, whatever was brought up
It was always either insincere and outrageous
Like the time Lynn got engaged to a woman  just so she wouldn't jump off of a cliff
Or to arouse men like that ongoing  joke of William hiding in the bushes  
and peeking through the blinds trying to  look at Lynn and her fake lesbian lover
and what's done is done I know  that but I want to point this  
out because this bias still exists  in many forms of the media today.
Over the years, we've seen women musicians  use performative bisexuality as a major  
marketing tool as well as countless  movies and TV shows that purposefully  
portray lesbianism in a salacious  nature to appease the male gaze.
And again, I'm not saying that  'Girlfriends' started this problem
I'm just saying that it's microaggressions  like these that support these biases that  
still reveal themselves in modern  media and thus modern society.
Alright, [Jamaican patois]: next argument now
In the early seasons, there was way  too much emphasis put on Toni's weave
Way too much.
And not like in a celebratory  or honorary way, either.
But in like a very shameful, hush  hush, dirty little secret kind of way.
Her white assistant really said to her that  she wasn't selling houses because her hair was
"dishonest".
I don't understand because it's  not like it's uncommon for Black  
women to grow their natural hair  to the length of Toni's weave.
So what are you really trying to say? And even if it didn't look realistic,  
let's use that word because honest
Even if it didn't look realistic,  
why are they acting like assimilation  wasn't invented yet in the 2000s?
Why are they acting like it wasn't  running even more rampant back then?
Let us be reminded that the natural hair movement  didn't take off until about 2013 or some shit.
And California became the first state to outlaw  hair discrimination in the workplace in 2019.
Nearly two decades after that episode aired.
And this is an issue for me as a now Black woman  and a then Black girl because it supports using  
hair as a means to meter a Black woman's  worth or as a crutch to humiliate her.
And in case you haven't watched the video
thee video
That's the reason I had to do a buzz  buzz real quick because f*** all of that
So yeah, I couldn't get through this  video without pointing that out.
Alright, [Jamaican patois]:"final  argument final one"
These writers sure do know how to dangle  Black women's happiness over my freaking head.
I felt like I was playing monkey in the middle.
Don't try me.
It's like I'll be setting myself up  but for real that's what it felt like  
the second we got a glimpse  of hope, a crumb of happiness
The writers was like "Sike! Stupid!"
Joan finally fell in love,  but he didn't want kids.
So, she finally meets her perfect man  gets engaged, but he gets sent to Iraq.
Maya finally got her husband  back, but he was unhappy with  
his job because he wanted to pursue his dreams.
So, they finally saved up enough money  for him to quit and pursue his dreams,  
but the dream turned into a nightmare.
So he has to quit that and  then they back at square one.
Lynn finally found her passion, but  nobody wanted to hear her music.
So, she finally met up with Big Boi, but the  label didn't like the song they made together.
Toni finally got her business back  on track, but her man left her.
So, she finally marries a doctor,  
but he's too short by her standards and can't  handle her attitude so he leaves her ass too.
I- I'm getting dizzy just trying to recall this
Could we have stopped to take a  breath, a little intermission maybe?
And yes, I understand that  conflict is what propels the plot,  
but with all these twists  and turns it gets exhausting.
This was just like the last couple seasons of  'The Game' or the last couple seasons of 'Scandal'
Y'all had a good thing going but you f***** it  by sending the audience on a wild goose chase.
But even with all these twists and turns, the  show still managed to survive for eight seasons.
But unfortunately, had to come to  an abrupt end for a few reasons.
Firstly, and this one here is just a speculation,  
Jill Marie Jones left the  show at the end of season six.
And while the show was still  doing pretty well like it-  
no it was doing very well even without her
to me it still kind of felt like there was a void.
Like there was something missing  without all four girlfriends.
And it just gave off the feeling that the end was  
near even if those storylines  was holding on for dear life.
As told by Tracee Ellis Ross, there was a  writer's strike which I'm assuming takes  
the fate of the show completely out of  the hands of the actors, the producers,  
even the viewers if we're demanding it.
Because I mean the show cannot survive  if there's no one there to compose it.
And the final season only had 13  episodes as compared to the usual 23.
So it was obvious that there were some  loose ends that were hastily tied up.
Nonetheless, I would suggest watching  the 'Girlfriends' reunion interview with  
Charlamagne and Black Femininity TV's video on it.
Both were very informative.
Since the success of the re-release,  there's been a lot of talk about a reboot.
And honestly, if that happens I  would watch it, of course I would.
But I don't need it.
I would much more prefer a 'Girlfriends'  movie or two just so that we can see a  
decent and a practical end to these  story lines instead of a continuation.
But again reboot or movie I'm going to watch.
All in all, this show was absolutely fantastic.
Yes of course I had some bones to pick with  the plot, but I do that with every damn show.
At the end of the day, I still grew an emotional  connection to those fictional characters.
So guess what?
Job well done.
So thank you for watching, especially  if you made it all the way to the end.
Be sure to leave your thoughts  and your comments down below.
And before I forget, a couple days ago,  
I did a poll on both Instagram and Twitter  and I asked how tall y'all thought I was.
Pony, which is under 5'4'.
A unicorn, 5'4" to 5'8".
Or a stallion, 5'9" plus.
The majority of you guessed unicorn, which  is the average American woman's height.
You know, safe bet I guess.
Um the second most popular guess was pony.
And then less than 10 percent  of you guessed stallion
So
The truth is I am ..
Five foot
One.
Point seven five.
Run me my three quarters point five  foot one point seven five get it right.
Yes, yes, yes Tee is tiny.
I'm sitting on the edge of my bed.
My feet are not touching the floor.
Tee is tiny. It is what it is.
Give me a thumbs up or a thumbs  down, however you're feeling today.
And be sure to subscribe for more content.
And thank you guys so much for this  milestone of 100,000 subscribers.
I could scream.
I'm going to after I turn off the  camera I'll catch you in the next video.
Bye.